
[obit. Louis G. Gregory, 1874-1951, see Baha'i World, volume XII, p. 666.
See also To Move the World: Louis G. Gregory and the Advancement of Racial
Unity in America. Gayle Morrison (Baha'i Publishing Trust: Wilmette, 1982).] 
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Louis G. Gregory was one of the first African-Americans in the United States to embrace the Baha'i Faith. He was later named a Hand of the Cause of God. In April and May of 1911, Gregory made a pilgrimage to Egypt, Haifa and 'Akka to meet 'Abdu'l-Baha and visit the Holy Shrines. He wrote a journal of his experiences on pilgrimage, in which he shares several stories about 'Abdu'l-Baha and the believers. He also provides 'Abdu'l-Baha's replies to various questions put to Him.

Following Gregory's notes is a selection of Tablets of 'Abdu'l- Baha addressed to him. Note: the copy I received of this text had no paragraph breaks. I added them where it seemed appropriate, but these are doubtless not the same paragraph breaks of the original text. This aside, I do not know whether or not this is an exact replica of the original Pilgrim's Note. -J.W.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


A Heavenly Vista

"And I John Saw The Holy City New Jerusalem,
Coming Down From God Out Of Heaven, 
Prepared As A Bride Adorned For Her Husband"
--Rev. 21-2


------------------------------------------------------------------------



THE PILGRIMAGE OF
LOUIS G. GREGORY

ORIGINALLY PRINTED BY
R .L. PENDLETON, WASHINGTON


1997 EDITION PRINTED BY
ALPHA SERVICES, FERNDALE MI

The 1997 printing has adhered to the text of the original printing, except that the spelling of proper names, and on rare occasions the spelling of other words, have been changed to conform to current spelling and placement of accent marks.

FOREWORD

In the following narrative of events connected with a pilgrimage to Ramleh and the Holy City, many things of a personal nature have been omitted. Yet some things remain, the reason being simple. 'Abdu'l-Baha the Servant of God and the Center of the Covenant of God, was found to be a loving father, a mighty teacher, and the living Temple in Whom the Spirit of Love abides. With the Manna of this Perfect Love He feeds the hearts of men. To discover His reality is to know this to a certainty. Today, in a world darkened by selfishness and sin, He walks unknown. Tomorrow, when the veils are rent, all men will want to know what He said and did. And the question will often be asked: "Is it possible that He even came amongst us and we knew Him not?" 

With the consent of 'Abdu'l-Baha Himself this brief and humble word of testimony is added to the voluminous literature of a world movement. The Baha'i Message of Unity is given in barest outline. Fuller accounts may be obtained from many books, the making of which will have no end. The Word of 'Abdu'l-Baha touching the problem of races, here put in concrete form, goes to the substance of the issue , and will appeal to the growing world consciousness of freedom and justice. Social scientists and reformers will be guided by this supreme wisdom. The heart-hungry everywhere will seek and find peace in the Creative Word. 

Since making this pilgrimage it has been the privilege of the writer to visit various centers in Europe and America, and see the Light of the Kingdom reflected in the radiant faces of many friends. Grateful memories of their love can never depart. Special mention must be made of Mr. and Mrs. J.H.H., the brilliant teachers in El Abha, who, with wonderful patience, guided an unworthy servant to the Light. America itself has been the scene of many Heavenly Bounties, during the recent tour of 'Abdu'l-Baha, Who spent nearly nine months of the year 1912 awakening the people to new life.

THE MESSAGE

Praise be to God, the Mighty, the Supreme! Although forever veiled and hidden from His creatures, in His Infinite Essence unknown and unknowable, yet His Mercies are sure and His Bounties manifest. From cycle to cycle He has revealed Himself under the Names and attributes, according to the capacity and perception of His children. Whether He be known as Elohim, I Am That I Am, Jehovah, the Lord of Hosts, Abba, Father, Mamoud, the Praised One, or Abha, the Ineffable Splendor of God, He is ever the same in the hearts of the chosen. Holy above all Names, He yet reveals the Names for the Guidance of souls. He is the Creator of all, the Holy One of all peoples and all religions. He rules and illumines all the world of existence, the creation of His Word. He is the Self-subsistent Lord, Who abides in His own Essence, Single and Alone. He is "The Preexistent, the Cause of Causes, the Beginning before which there was no Beginning." Verily, "the sight comprehendeth Him not, but He comprehendeth the Sight." 

How marvelous is the age! Great activities in science, education, commerce and laws, know no parallel. New inventions are so frequent that they cease to astonish. The diffusion of learning is vast through multiplied agencies. Commercial relations bind the most primitive to the most highly civilized of nations, making their interests one. Freedom advances with giant strides. Vast forces are marshalled; old leaders are discredited; ancient despotisms perish; new issues are forced. Everywhere the old order changes. Everywhere the despised and rejected among races and classes are moving toward a nobler life while the reality of humanity is being unveiled. The world awakens to new life and men begin to speak of the Dawn of Peace, and the Golden Age. These outward signs of progress indicate an unrest in the hearts of men, who vainly seek without, that which must first of all come from within. The spiritual must out weigh the material. The dream of all the ages, universal peace, can only be realized as the nations turn to God. The condition precedent to universal peace is universal love. And this ideal condition can only be attained through the Divine Religion, descending from God. The Logos or Divine Word, is ever the same. It is both powerful and effective. It never returns to Him void. Whether the mighty Speaker of the Word be Jesus, Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Melchisideck or Muhammad, it becomes the educator of the world of existence, and the Reality of the Word is unity. Today, as the world approaches its maturity, the first fruits of unity have appeared. The Holy One heralded in all former cycles has come. The Promised One has appeared with majesty and power. "The Tabernacle of God is with men!" As in past ages, the few are awake; the many are asleep upon the bed of spiritual negligence. Meantime, the mightiest drama of the ages is enacted. Blessed are those who see with their eyes and understand with their hearts! Yea, "Blessed are those who know!"

The Elijah of the New Day appeared in Persia and made His declaration May 23, 1844, at the time when the Millerites in America, having studied the prophecies of the Bible, expected the Son of Man to drop down from the clouds. Mirza 'Ali Muhammad, known among the Muslims as a young man of excellent character, but following the occupation of merchant, suddenly declared Himself to be the Imam Mahdi whose coming is foretold in their Holy Book, the Qur'an. Among a people noted for religious fanaticism so unusual a claim could not pass unnoticed. He was at first ridiculed, then insulted, threatened, and beaten. But undismayed by affliction, He journeyed about the country, teaching the people and explaining the mysteries of their holy book with so much spirit and power that those who listened to Him were strangely moved. Many believed on Him, and many, for the hope that He held out to them of the coming of the Glory of God, suffered themselves to become martyrs in the dust. The spiritual title taken by this forerunner, or First Point of Revelation, was the Bab, a title which in the Persian tongue means the door or gate. By this it was indicated that He came but to prepare the way for One Mightier. After six years of teaching the Bab was Himself martyred, being shot to death by a regiment of soldiers at the command of the Shah. 

The Sun of Baha'u'llah (The Splendor of God) then illumined the horizon. During the brief cycle of the Bab, Baha'u'llah, then known simply as Mirza Husayn'Ali Nouri, a young nobleman of blameless life, had become known as a strong supporter of the cause. With many others He suffered persecution, His vast estates being forfeited. He was thrown into prison and threatened with death. But through the intercession of the Russian ambassador and other persons of influence, His punishment was commuted to banishment, and He was carried under an escort of soldiers to Baghdad, beyond the borders of Persia. After the passing of the Bab, although some time passed before His declaration, the Babis began to look to Him, by an intuition, as their leader. At Baghdad He suddenly left His family and followers, retiring to the mountains, where He remained about two years. He was in close communion with God, and this was the period of preparation for His Divine Mission. In one of His eloquent verses these Words appear: "I was asleep on My couch; the Breaths of My Lord, the Merciful, passed over Me and awakened Me from My sleep, and commanded Me to proclaim between earth and Heaven." Upon His return to those who so eagerly awaited Him, the Book of Iqan (Book of Certainty) was revealed in answer to certain inquiries of the uncle of the Bab. The mysteries of the Bible, the Qur'an and other Holy Books are revealed in this wonderful book, and the explanation of such tt [sic -J.W.]mysteries and sent marvelous writings to the kings and rulers of the earth.

Among His books are the Kitab-i-Aqdas, or Book of Laws, and the Kitab-i-'Ahd, or Book of the Covenant, wherein He appoints His eldest son, Abbas Effendi, as His spiritual successor and the Center of the Covenant of God. The appearance of Baha'u'llah is the direct fulfillment of the Lord's prayer in the establishment on earth of the Kingdom of the Father. The Manifestation of the Father, Baha'u'llah, heralded by all the prophets, comes to unite the souls of His creatures. His Divine utterances reveal the means of harmony for all religions and all peoples. Among the agencies He mentions as conducive to unity are cessation of war, a universal language, to be taught in all the schools of the world, a universal calendar, the education of all classes and of both sexes, religious tolerance and the reign of love. Encouragement is also given to commerce, the arts, science, agriculture and scientific discovery. The people are commanded to bring forth fruit upon the earth. "The principle of faith is to lessen words and increase deeds."

Since the passing of Baha'u'llah in 1892, Abbas Effendi has led the movement. Among the friends He is known by His spiritual title, 'Abdu'l- Baha, which means the Servant of God. He is the Center of the Covenant of God, a station conferred upon Him by Baha'u'llah and confirmed by the Divine Utterances of both the Book of Laws and the Book of the Covenant. He was born May 23, 1844, the Day of the Declaration of the Bab and at the time the Millerites of America were expecting wonderful occurrences. From His early childhood until the revolution of the Young Turks He was a prisoner, spending most of the time in or near the fortification of 'Akka. Since His liberation He has traveled in Egypt, Europe and America, everywhere teaching peace, service, unity and love, and received with marks of reverence and love.

A PILGRIMAGE

On the afternoon of April 10, 1911, the writer landed at Alexandria, Egypt. As soon as possible my way was made to the store of Mirza Hassan Khorassani, Rue Cherif Pasha, where I met several of the friends who received me with marks of kindness and soon put me at ease. A letter of introduction, written by Dr. E. C. Getsinger and transcribed in Persian, was handed to D. Muhammad Yazdi, an Oriental gentleman of pleasing manners and placid countenance. "You want to see our Lord?" he half questioned, half asserted. Upon giving my assent, he agreed to act as guide. Although pleased at this mark of courtesy, I reasoned that it was unnecessary, and that I had no wish to take him away from his business. But he put my objections aside, saying, "This is spiritual business!" Thus, escorted by my gracious friend, I went first to my hotel, and soon thence to a modest but comfortable-appearing house with a front garden, the temporary home of 'Abdu'l-Baha. Passing through the garden, I was left standing at a side entrance leading to the second story by a flight of steps. After an absence of a few moments my guide returned, indicating that I should follow. I soon entered a reception room on the second floor. 

Several persons were present, but among them 'Abdu'l-Baha was easily distinguished. Majesty and beauty are His adornments. Following a natural impulse, my knee was bent reverently before Him. Feeling Him bend over me, I knew that He touched my head with his lips. He then raised me up and directed me to a seat. Besides my guide, the other persons present proved to be Tamaddun ul Molk and Nouraddin Zaine, Persians, and Nevill G. Meak in and Miss Louisa A. M. Mathew (afterwards Mrs. Louis G. Gregory), English. 'Abdu'l- Baha asked after my health. I answered that I was well. For the weariness of the long journey, the suspense, and the excitement of landing for the first time at an Oriental port, were all forgotten in His Presence. I never felt more peaceful or composed. I said that I was happy to attain the meeting. He answered: "I am happy to have you here." Mention was then made of fragrant Baha'i meetings in Washington and New York just prior to my departure, and of letters and tokens of love sent by the friends. Some of the messages being delivered, out of His great wisdom fitting responses were made.

VISIONS

'Abdu'l-Baha was asked to interpret the vision of Mrs. Amy Wilt, one of the Washington friends. She was left very ill and passed away before my return. In her vision she had seen 'Abdu'l-Baha leaning on the Blessed Perfection (Baha'u'llah), a beautiful light and a shower of white doves. "Have you not read in the Bible how the Spirit was seen descending in the form of a dove?" asked 'Abdu'l-Baha. Soon after accepting the Revelation the writer had a vision. (Joel 2-28) Baha'u'llah was seen with head bent gently forward. His right arm was extended and from His right side flowed four layers of mellow golden light, each layer containing numberless spirals and beautiful figures. The light was of uniform brightness. This vision soon vanished and I found myself turning into a street in which some enemies of the Cause of God were menacing the believers. I raised my right hand above my head and shouted, "It is all true! Mine eyes have seen the Glory!" 'Abdu'l-Baha explained. "There are four classes of people. The first is those who have accepted the teachings and occupy themselves spreading the Glad Tidings. The second is those who are good believers, but make no effort to guide others. The third is those who have heard the Message of the Kingdom but have not accepted it. The fourth is those who have not yet heard of this Revelation. As to the contention of those who deny and oppose, you have already had experience enough to know what this means."

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Is it incumbent upon the friends to put into execution at once the laws contained in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, as far as we know them? "There is at present no satisfactory translation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas. It must first be translated by a board well acquainted with both Persian and English." Shall Esperanto or Ido become the basis of the universal language? "Esperanto is preferred above Ido." What is the meaning of the term Genii mentioned in the Qur'an? "This refers to evil passions in man, as lusts." In reply to another question, 'Abdu'l-Baha made it clear that this expression does not refer to the forces of nature, such as wind and water. Does the Baha'i prohibition of gambling and lotteries forbid games of every description? "No, some games are innocent, and if pursued for pastime there is no harm. But there is danger that pastime may degenerate into waste of time. Waste of time is not acceptable in the Cause of God. But recreation, which may improve the bodily powers, as exercise, is desirable." Is it practicable at present to open a Baha'i home in Washington? "There should be a meeting place." But in New York, it was urged, the friends have opened a Baha'i home. "There should be a meeting place," repeated 'Abdu'l-Baha. What is the Will of 'Abdu'l-Baha concerning this unworthy servant? "Work for unity and harmony between the races."

THE RACE QUESTION

'Abdu'l-Baha asked, "What of the conflict between the white and colored races?"

This question made me smile, for I at once felt that my Inquirer, although He had never in person visited America, yet knew more of conditions than I could ever know. Ianswered that there was much friction between the races. That those who accepted the Baha'i teachings had hopes of an amicable settlement of racial differences, while others were despondent. Among the friends were earnest souls who wished for a closer unity of races and hoped that He might point out the way to them. He further questioned. "Does this refer to the removal of hatreds and antagonisms on the part of one race, or of both races?" Both races, was my answer, and He said this would be done. Here He was told of a suggestion that had been made, that the central Baha'i meeting in Washington should be open to all races, while group meetings might be organized along racial lines. "The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must be open to all races." But at present we have no Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, I answered. "There must be no distinctions in Baha'i meetings. All are equal." 'Abdu'l-Baha expressed approval of the Working Committee in giving representation to the colored race. He said He would pray for them. What should the colored race do to improve its material and spiritual condition? "The best thing for it is to accept these teachings. In this way they will gain the confidence of the whites and differences will fade. The Baha'i teachings reveal the means of both material and spiritual progress." 

Pleasure was expressed at seeing 'Abdu'l-Baha look so well. He replied that He felt well. I am glad that you overlook my shortcomings and receive me so cordially. His beautiful face became illumined by a smile and He answered: "You are welcome, very welcome! I have waited for your coming and (indicating Mr. Meakin) have a special guide to take you around." He inquired about the amount of time I could stay and said that I might divide it between Ramleh and 'Akka. Then He added: "And now I want you to see two other friends of mine, one of them a minister" [of state]. Upon shaking hands my first interview with the Center of God's Covenant was at an end. We had talked long, and twice I paused to ask if I were not consuming too much of His time. Each time He said no, and the tenderest parent could not have been so patient, courteous and loving. This evening I dined with Kaem Makem of Tihran, formerly a minister of state. He embraced the Baha'i Cause against the intense opposition of his proud family, risking place and fortune. He was deeply interested in the progress of the Cause in America and was especially happy over reports of unity. Nouradin Zaine was present and interpreted. 

April 11. This morning at my hotel, the Victoria, I awaited Messrs. Meakin and Molk, with whom I had a tentative appointment. In the meantime I was busy with my diary. At the sound of voices and footsteps, I looked out of the window and saw coming up the steps leading to the broad veranda -- 'Abdu'l-Baha. He was accompanied by a tall, Arab-like Persian. Surprised, I went joyfully to meet Him. He took my hand and said, "I came especially to see you." He then led me to a seat and left me. Not knowing how long He would be absent, as I heard Him going along the corridor and saying in a strong voice, "Good Morning!" I resumed my writing at the table. He soon returned and again led me to a seat against the wall of the room. This time He was accompanied by Tamaddun ul Molk and the other Persian. We were all seated and a few words were said by 'Abdu'l-Baha. Then He left us, explaining that He would visit a sick friend. Then the tall Persian, who proved to be Mirza Hassan Khorassani, embraced me very warmly in 