Book of the River -- Sahifiy-i-Shattiyyih 
Revealed by Baha'u'llah 
(A provisional translation by Nader Saiedi) 
The Journal of Baha'i Studies 9.3.1999 
 
<p57> 
 
[Center] {He is God! There is none other God but Him, and we, verily, believe in Him} [center] 
 
  The people talk constantly about this subject, but most of them comprehend not. Of the miracles mentioned, those which are ascribed to this humble one are fabrications contrived by impostors. As for the miracles ascribed to the Primal point and the Wellspring of the First Outpouring [the Bab], and those related to the Mirrors reflecting His glory, these are truths by which the faithful are blessed. However, whatsoever was revealed in the Bayan from the heaven of loving-kindness and the cloud of mercy, naught hath been ordained as a universal testimony and a conclusive proof other than the revelation of verses. This hath ever been and ever will be God's testimony unto the people of the earth. If anything else appeared from the mine of bounty and glory [Baha], that was but a token of God's grace. Otherwise, the greatest testimony is that which He Himself hath ordained: "And whose word is more true than God's?"[1] 
  [1. Qur'an 4:89.] 
 
  However, those who entirely deny the appearance of any miracle attributed to the Prophets should not do so, for human reason is not a sufficient standard. When viewed with the eye of insight, no phenomenon on earth could be comprehended by any human, whether high or low, without prior observation and experience. Observe the sun in the heavens. To the extent that it is manifest, it giveth splendor and illumination to the entirety of the inhabitants of the earth in the east, the west, and all other directions. Certainly, human reason would not be inclined to accept the possibility of the existence of such a thing by means of any rational definition or description without actual observations and experience. It is the same with all other things in God's creation. Reflect, so that the secret of this question may become disclosed to thee. All things are miracles of the Prophets: "Repeat the gaze: seest thou a single flaw?"[2] In the Qur'an there are many verses which touch upon this theme. Although We do not have in mind an exact text, the purport of the verses is as follows. For example: "He it is Who created you and then provided for you sustenance. Will ye not see?" "He it is Who produced you from the earth most excellently. Will ye not believe?" "He hath sent down the rain from heaven. Will ye not give thanks?" "He hath <p58> created the heavens and the earth and whatever lieth between them, and made the mountains a shelter as a token of His grace, yet few among you understand." Thus it becometh evident that all phenomena, as things endowed with power, are also miracles of God. Is there any Creator besides God? Say: Praise be unto God. No maker is there but Him, in whose name the faithful believe. 
  [2. Qur'an 67:3.] 
 
  Yea, if it is said that those miracles attributed to the former Prophets are not true unless they are revealed now, this also is not an argument worthy of enlightened minds and understanding hearts. For how often events have occurred in the past which have not occurred in the present, and vice versa. Every thing hath its storehouses with thy Lord, and He sendeth them down as He pleaseth according to a measure from Him. He is your Lord and the Lord of your forefathers. Consider, for instance, that every thirty years, according to the calculation and reckoning of men, there is an outbreak of plague in some lands. Could it be argued with disbelief during the delay of an outbreak of plague that no plagues have occurred in the past, since otherwise it must happen now? The same is true of other events that have occurred before but are not happening at present, and vice versa. 
 
  If it is said, Why should not a miracle reflecting God's absolute power and unconditioned attributes appear now in order to cause the upliftment of sanctified spirits and the exaltation of holy souls, this is indeed true in the same way as thou dost affirm it with regard to the Bayan. God possesseth the best analogies, wert thou to comprehend. Consider the course of this river, which is visible for all to see. When its waters swell and flood, it rusheth forward and moveth turbulently. Whatever it doeth, it remaineth within its own sovereignty. However much the helpless people cry out from every side--claiming that a great dam hath been rent asunder, or a barrier obliterated, or houses destroyed, or a palace crushed to ruins--the river payeth them no heed. With the utmost force and compulsion, power and sovereignty, it continueth to rush and flow, touching all places equally. For instance, before the onrush of its power it doth not matter whether a building belongeth to a prince or to a pauper; the effect is the same, unless that building hath unique fortifications. Thus do We create analogies for you that haply ye may be of those who are well assured. Make thy vision sharp and thy sight keen that the fragrances of joy and exultation may waft upon thy heart and thou mayest be established upon the throne of tranquility. This is the greatest of bestowals and the best of states. Would that ye might find a path unto it. 
 
  Observe, furthermore, that were a mighty person to block this river and control its course by means of his authority and sovereign power, as a consequence how many homes and dwellings would be ruined and how many people would be drowned, even though, at the same time, certain dry lands which had long been suffering from lack of rain would be irrigated, obtain fresh and wondrous life, and appear in a new and fabulous garment. Verily, <p59> God createth what He pleaseth through the power of His command. No God is there save God, the Lord of all the worlds. 
 
  Similarly, ponder upon the mysteries of divine decree and destiny. Whatever hath appeared or will appear is like this river. Each thing moveth or reposeth in its proper place. But if something contrary to this natural flow of events is manifested, the order of the world becometh gravely disrupted. Couldst thou but grasp this subtle mystery, which is more hidden than any other mystery, thou wouldst find thyself independent of this and all other questions. It is for this reason that, in every age and century, as He desireth, the Unique Hidden One and the Eternal Essence manifesteth that true River and real Sea and causeth it to flow, adorning it with a new temple and a new vesture. All those structures of vain imaginings and palaces of the ungodly are then swept away and destroyed in its waters. With utmost desire and thirst they drown and perish, lacking even the faintest awareness that they could quaff a draught thereof. Thus doth God bestow life upon whom He willeth, and taketh it away from whom He willeth, and confirmeth whom He pleaseth, and denieth whom He pleaseth, could ye but perceive it. 
 
  This is especially true if the Eastern Winds begin to blow upon the flood of this heavenly river, which is rushing forth form the North of divine unity. How many exalted souls and possessors of true understanding, how many mighty castles and firm lofty edifices, will be destroyed and perish. By Him Who holdeth the heavens by His might and moveth the oceans by His command! Were it not for fear of the malice hidden in the hearts, I would have assuredly unveiled all the inmost divine analogies and all the subtleties of the heavenly principles with regard to the course of this outward river. Yet, alas, I am disinclined to approach any matter. On account of the intensity of My anguish and sorrow, in these days I am sore and tried between the Gog of silence and the Magog of utterance. I beseech God to send down an Alexander who will raise an insurmountable barrier. 
 
  Hidden allusions are concealed within these verses and holy letters are treasured up within these words. Blessed is the one who hath seized these pearls, recognized their value, and attained the presence of their Supreme Meaning. It is clear and evident that the root of differences, from the farthest worlds of meaning to the nearest degree of expression, is caused by the diversity of the forms of the mirrors. Each person speaketh and expresseth himself according to that which is reflected within him. For example, with reference to the same analogy of the flooding reiver, observe that it floweth forward in one manner and its relationship to all buildings and structures is the same, yet any valley that hath more capacity is able to resist it. These differences, therefore, have arisen from the diversity of recipients. In like manner, consider the rays of the Eternal Sun, which shine with the same illumination in the <p60> heaven of human hearts but, when reflected in the forms of mirrors, differ by reason of differences among the mirrors themselves. Thus it is that some abide exalted in their essences and high in their endeavors, while others sink into the depths of lethargy and degradation. All things have their rank before God, and all return unto Him. 
 
  Those possessed of insight should make their vision as sharp as blades of steel and their hearts as vast as existence itself that haply, while there is yet a chance, the former may not be prevented from beholding the Divine Beauty, nor the latter remain withheld from the sweet waters of everlasting life. Thus may they take delight in all foods and obtain their portion and no longer cleave unto the sayings of the people or suffer their virtue to be robbed by their deeds. All drink from the same fountain and partake of the same ocean, and all have their ranks before thy Lord, and all move in accordance with their own state. Today, every soul who believeth in the Most Exalted Countenance and recognizeth with certitude His station as manifested after Him on the Throne, this shall suffice him above any other knowledge or deed. But His good pleasure and faith in Him cannot be realized except through obedience unto His command in all things. This is the greatest, most excellent, and consummate fruit of existence. There is no goal besides God and no end save Him. 
 
  All that hath been mentioned of the attributes of the river was only one analogy which streamed forth from the Pen. Ponder and reflect, that haply all the hidden mysteries may be freed from the veils of nearness and remoteness, of loftiness and abasement, and unveil their beauty. Recognize this Sea of Seas before whose grandeur all seas are but a drop, and behold how it surgeth within the Wellspring of its own blessed Essence and the mine of its own attributes. Say: Praise be unto God! How astonishing is Thy cause and how mighty Thy power! How great is Thy sovereignty and how compelling Thy grandeur! We know naught of Thee except what Thou hast taught us through the tongue of the Manifestation of Thyself and the Wellspring of Thine Essence, He Who is the Fountainhead of Thy Cause and the Repository of Thy Decree. Verily, Thou knowest all that hath been and will be created. Thou, indeed, art the Truth, the Knower of things unseen. 
 
  O Javad! We shall import unto thee a single word which We have taken from the essence of the Sacred Books and Scriptures as a token of Our mercy and loving-kindness, that the water of immortality may rain from the clouds of God's unity upon thy reality and the realities of His servants, and that thou mayest attain unto eternal and everlasting life. That word is this: "Possess a pure, kindly and radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient, imperishable and everlasting." This is a treasure that pertaineth to Heaven. Were it to be quickened and to rise, it would never die or perish. This is a light that shall never be extinguished, a treasure that perisheth not, a raiment that shall never be outworn, a revelation that will never be concealed. Through <p61> it many will go astray and others will be guided. Render thanks unto God that thou hast become the recipient of this All-Encompassing Word, this celestial melody and heavenly song. Had I found a word more conclusive, I would have divulged it. There is no greater counsel than this word. Preserve it if thou desirest to find a path to the Lord of the Mighty Throne. 
 
  It is because of the love this servant holdeth for thee that this answer hath been written. Otherwise, I have no inclination to set forth any topic or write a single letter thereon. God is a sufficient witness unto Me, and a protector for thee. Wherefore, rise up with legs of iron and set forth upon this path which We have rolled out upon the snow-white earth of the spirit. With eyes of consuming flame gaze upon its pillars and its stature, and with ruby ears hearken unto what hath appeared therefrom in regard to thy question. With palms of gold and fingers of power seize what is in and upon it, and with a swordlike tongue sing and chant in ringing tones, clap and drum, that there is no God but Him, that 'Ali Muhammad is the Essence of God and His eternal Being, and Muhammad 'Ali is the Mine of the Cause of God and His everlasting Self, that the Living Identity, and the Letters of the Living are the first to have believed in God and His verses. We all, verily, cleave unto them. This is the Word by which truth shall be distinguished from falsehood until the Day when the Hour shall strike, when all shall present themselves before God and abide by His command. Glory be upon those who believe in Him on the day of His meeting and who observe what He hath decreed. 
 
 
 
 
