November-December 1952
Ford, Bahiyyih

"Notes from Bahiyyih Ford's visit to Madrid after being in Haifa and visiting 14 European countries.  November-December 1952."

	Says the Guardian is telling the pilgrims all details of the 10-year Plan (1953-1963) but they are not supposed to tell some of the things.  As he is preparing these people to be focal points in the world during these years in which there will be global war, and that instructions will be cut off.  Certain things, however can be told.

	The Guardian has a map with ins etc. with the whole plan laid out on it.  Also many notebooks in which the Plan is already thought out, on paper.  He says the all-over plan of God for Man's progress on this planet is already fore-ordained and unimpedable - but the Guardian's 10 year Plan is subject to delays and set-backs and conditions.  He is telling pilgrims exactly what he wants them to do.

	The entire Ford family is asked to move to Johannesburg, Africa.  (Now a terrible centre of racial dissention.)  He says that in the past pioneers or travellers have asked for instructions from him, and once received they write again and ask "if it is necessary, or if they have to follow these instructions!"  He says, well, they don't have to, but this is the Divine Plan, indicated, and they are foolish to overlook the opportunity to OBEY.

	He says the CABLES are so important basically - we should STUDY and OBEY.

	Says in the October 8 CABLE that America has 29 places to take care of in the next ten years.  (Key West he counts as an island - separately: a place.)  The instructions for the ten year plan will be revealed little by little.

	The Guardian's HEALTH is now excellent.  He was very happy and cheerful during the visit of M, Ford and Marion Little, who were the only Pilgrims there at the time.  The Guardian was dear to Marion.  She made him laugh and laugh hard.

	The Temple built by "The Branch" as promised in the Bible, means neither the  Master nor a Shrine, not a Temple of mortar and clay, but this star with all the Tablets (to the Kings) within it.  & Baha'u'llah ordered someone to write this, and then, as it hung on the wall in & Akka, said what it meant:  "This is the Temple- I am the Branch -  have built it!"
(It was a nine-pointed star in which the Tablets to the Kings were all written)  (Is this truly repeated??NO)

There are THREE CHARTERS:  
1.  The Will and Testament of 'A-B.                                Administ.
2.  the Divine Plan of & Abdu'l-baha
3.  The Tablet of Carmel,
which is the Charter for the world Center.  The Tablet of Mount Carmel is the most important center.  Read carefully the allusion on vital CITY OF GOD - ARK OF GOD.  The Ark, is of the Laws to be established.  The will flow from Mount Carmel.  The International House of Justice.  The City of God means the spiritual center of Mt. Carmel which is the resting place of the & Bab.  Near the Carmelite monastery, & Baha'u'llah (in a tent) revealed it.  It is near the cave or Elijah.  The & Bab is the return of Elijah.  The Tablet is unfinished.  He was interrupted.  The "people of & Baha" mentioned in it are the members of the International House of Justice.  Under the City of God, the Guardian said it also means & Baha'u'llah Himself (which would also include also the Shrine of & Baha'u'llah on Mt. Carmel - in the distant future, as the immediate plans are to be old more suitable Tomb at Bahji.)

	& Baha'u'llah pointed out the location of the Tomb of the & Bab.  In 1870 & Baha'u'llah was in a tent under the cypresses - He faced the East, and & 'Abdu'l-baha was facing the West - the believers were apart - they saw & Baha'u'llah pointing to the spot where the Tomb of the & Bab was to be erected.  
	
	When & Baha'u'llah died, the Covenant breakers did everything possible to disturb the proceedings of the Tomb in Bahji.  It seems that & 'Abdu'l-baha, in order to take care of it properly had to do so by night - as they jeered and threw things.  & 'Abdul-baha carried dirt in his clear from the Garden of & Ridvan to put on the Tomb of & Baha'u'llah - the believers following carrying more dirt in flower pots - and carrying lanterns - at early dawn.  The & Baha'is didn't own any property on Mt. Carmel at the time, and & 'Abdu'l-baha began to buy all he could.

	For ten years after the body of the & BAB was in Haifa it was continually hidden.  No one knew where it was or that it was in Haifa.  It was hidden in various laces - in & 'Abdu'l-Baha's own room - then that of the Greatest Holy Leaf - then when & 'Abdu'l-Baha  began building the vault for the Tomb on Mt. Carmel, the Body was put into the first vault as soon as it was finished, and before the rest of the building was completed.  The rest was built up around it.  No one knew of this.  (Then later, when finished, the Master Himself transferred the blessed remains to the new crystal sarcophagus sent by Indian & Baha'is - and it was officially interred.

	'Abdu'l-Baha never spoke of the Tomb as if it were finished, although no one knew that it would ever be different.  He constantly referred to the superstructure - "It is unbuilt and no one knew why He said this.  He spoke of an arcade which would be around the Tomb - the believers will not go into it in the future (but will circumambulate it.)

	"There will be a dome"  He also said. 

	 Marrion Little's work is just beginning"  !! (she must stay on in Italy.)

	Gifts are to be given during the Intercalary Days and at Naw RUZ.

	We must love the world.  & Baha'u'llah has claimed the insufficiency of patriotism, Jesus taught individual love.  Muhammad taught the love of country which was national love.  Baha'u'llah taught us to Love the Whole World.

	& Baha'u'llah said that the world is approaching maturity.  We must become mature.  Potentially it sowed in the "year 60" but it will become a reality only in the Golden Age.

	The ADAMIC CYCLE is 5,000 yrs. old.  But 500,000 yrs will be the & Baha'i Cycle.

	"There will be no Revelation like Mine " & Baha'u'llah said, "for 500,000 years.  The Master explained this and said:  "There will be major Prophets and They will come with a Book - they might even change the & AQDAS, but the source of their inspiration is & Baha'u'llah.

	There is a HIERARCHY in the Faith.  1.  God.  2.  & Baha'u'llah.  3.  The Major and Minor Prophets.  4.  & 'Abdu'l-baha.  5.  The Guardian and Administration, 6- the Hands, the International House of Justice and its Committees.

	The year 9 is the date from which the 1000 years to the next prophet is figured because this marks the intimation of the Revelation of the birth of the Mission.  (& 'Abdu'l-Baha says this in a Tablet.)

	Zoroaster was a contemporary of ISAIAH. Zoroaster went to the Holy Land.

	& Baha'u'llah's mission lasted 39 years.
	& 'Abdu'l-Baha's mission lasted 29 years.  (according to careful reckoning) 

	& Baha'ullah said:  "I go to Sulamaniyyih contemplating no return..."  From the human viewpoint He did not intend to return; but from the Prophetic, He had to return.

	Mirza Yaya has greatly corrupted the & Bab's writings.  && Baha'u'llah said that the most pure were "the commentary on the Surih of Joseph", the Persian Beyen, and the "Seven Proofs."

	How could forgeries be done?  They licked the ink and it comes off, and then they smooth it with a knife and write over it.

	"members of My family"  (The Afnan) as quoted in Prayers and Meditations.  (words of & Baha'ullah - refer to His family before His Declaration, during which time & Baha'ullah's family was known as Afnan.

	WIVES OF & BAHA'ULLAH- The first, was the mother of & 'Abdu'l-Baha, the Greatest Holy Leaf- The purest Branch.  The second - was the mother of Muhammad Ali- the Covenant Breakers (both in Persia.)  The third wife was of the Baghdad period.

	We must at all times give correct status of the Faith.  We must be wise, bold, brave under normal circumstances  but we must not be too bold in Israel, Spain, etc.. (The G.)

	The Latins are awakening now - Italy, Spain, S. America.

	(Do not quote)  The Ten Year Plan -  It's all very thrilling to read, but not to carry out.  It is a very ambitious program.  "I (the G.) stretch my neck out from the world Center East, and West, to see if we can do this."  We divide everything by ten (??) 

	& Baha'ullah changed terribly and suddenly after His stay in Adrianople - this as after the poisoning of Yaya.

	THERE IS NO TWENTIETH LETTER OF THE LIVING.  There are Eighteen.  The & Bab is the 19th - and & Baha'u'llah is not included (even though the Tablet to Him is included in the "Dawn Breakers"

	The world suffers from excesses.

	There have always been grave differences of opinion (in the cause), but it has never lead to Schism.  The differences are a process of purification.

	The NATIONALITY and Citizenship determine the group of & Baha'is you belong to , not the country you might be living in.
	
	This epoch - the World Order of & Baha'ullah, - is executing the Plan of & 'Abdu'l-"Baha all over the entire planet.  The next distinguishing feature is the rise of the Adm. Center in the World Center - the Holy Land, and the executing of 'Abdu'l-b"aha's Will in which 12 NSA's will participate.  The Seven Year Plan of the Americans - and the ten goal countries in Europe established the participation of the 12 NSA's to be established.  The epochs succeeding each other from the time the Master revealed the Tablets before the first World War was 20 years to launch the building of the Adm.  Order and this time I have been busy building now the Administration is organized and it is rescuing, fashioning institutions and this has been a means to an end.  (?)

Summer Schools
	All the SS must be developed as a center of culture.  The SS will presently eventually grow into great institutions of learning and culture. 

	& Baha'ullah suffered most in the Most Great Prison (& 'Akka).  He did not call the & Siyyih-Chal the Most Great Prison, even with all the suffering He endured there.  In & 'Akka He had the Turkish enemies form without an the & Baha'i enemies from within.  This refers to the followers of Subi- Azal who were sent with & Baha'u'llah in order to check on Him.

	THE ARABS were advised by the English to leave Haifa.  One million Arabs went out.  They expected to return with a victorious army to set up an ARAB republic, during the First World War.  The Turks were the enemies of the Holy Land - then came the threat of the Germans, then the Arabs - Later in the picture will be the Russians.  

	THE RUSSIAN TEMPLE ( & Baha'i Temple in Iskabad) is now a factory.  The Guardian communicates under great difficulties with the Russian believers, and it is done by Persians living along the border.

	THE AMERICANS must never take sides with Capitalism or Communism - We must be neutral.  We do not identify ourselves with any system because all of them have elements that are irreconcilable with our teachings.  The & Baha'is must stand by the principles - Both Communism and Capitalism are sunk in materialism.  We cannot uphold either one.  We are not attacking the Governments, but the systems.

	MRS. TRUE was asked by the Guardian (While she was there) to plan the program for the Temple Dedication.  The Guardian made this program for her.  Themes:  Difference between God and & Baha'u'llah- and the Unity of Religions.

	The GUARDIAN gave MRS. TRUE a surprise gift - He took out a little purse and showed it to her asking her if she had ever seen it before - When she said she had seen & "Abdu'l-Baha open it many times to take out money - the Guardian presented it to her.  (She was treasurer of the & Baha'i Temple Unity for years when the beginnings of the Temple were under way.  In the purse he put a gold coin.  dated the year 1912 (?)

	In the TEN YEAR PLAN the believers must not be flooded with details all at once.  So the friends will be prepared. We will get them in the Conferences.  We must study the Cables.  The present pilgrims are privileged to be the barriers of this information beforehand.

	Harry Randall, one of the earliest believers was Bahiyyih's (Ford) father.

	The GUARDIAN'S favorite FLOWER is jasmine.  The flowers put on the sacred Thresholds of the Shrines in the different seasons are roses, jasmine and violets.
	The building of the WORLD Administrative CENTER will be around the resting place of the Greatest Holy Leaf.  That will be the focal Center.  The Master said there would be nothing built around the & Bab's Shrine.  Mason is to be the designer of the International Archives building, and it will probably go up where the Minor Archives are now.  This bldg. will be demolished.  The Guardian said we must now find the land where we will put the Temple and then purchase it.  The floodlights that are on the Shrine were placed by the Master - He gave instructions about this, (to Beatrea Irvin)

	The earth that is in the courtyard of the Shrine of & Baha'ullah brought by the Master from the garden of the & Ridvan at Dawn - We would get the dirt in His cloak and carry it to the Shrine.  The believers followed Him in a procession with lanterns and carrying dirt in flower pots.

	The FIRST FIVE YEARS after the passing of & Baha'u'llah were the saddest for & 'Abdu'l-Baha.  He lived alone in Akka with the Greatest Holy Leaf.  All turned against Him - even the & Bab's relatives.  The secretaries of & Baha'u'llah and even & Baha'u'llah's cook.  & "Abdu'l-Baha riding on His white donkey to the Shrine of & Baha'u'llah would observe the condition of the Bahji, and how it was falling to pieces with the Covenant Breakers living there, and He would think how sad this is.  Thirty years of the life of & "Abdu'l-Baha and for ten years after in Bahji, was in the hands of the enemies.  

	Ques. (cov. breakers)  Why is it that the family of the Manifestations always oppose?  Ans.  Being close to the Prophet is the greatest test.  This is one of the reasons why they fall away.  We see that the sons of Noah, the brothers and sisters of Jesus could not stand the test.  2.  Because of the human element of the Prophet.  & Baha'u'llah went to the Sullimaniyyeh expecting never to return.  (When someone said how is this possible when He must have known His destiny)  The Guardian said that it was His "Human wish" that spoke.	

	Mirza Yaya had really a good nature but came under but came under the influence of Siyyid Monamad who was the living embodiment of wickedness.  Actually & Baha'u'llah wrote to the & Bab recommending Mirza Yaya's character and the & Bab responded with a Tablet appointing him leader until the Promised One would declare Himself.  The enemies of the Faith in the past were brothers and Himself.  Ex:  the half-brother.  This is an interesting and important point.  Some of the most important papers of & Baha'u'llah were in the hands of His amanuensis, who turned against & 'Abdu'l-Baha.  When this man died, they were left to Siyyid Ali, who was a Cov. Breaker - but he repented at that time and gave the papers to & "Abdu'l-Baha.  He became again a Cov. Breaker - but the Master had the papers.

	AT the time of the Bab the Faith spread only in two countries - Iran and Iraq.  AT THE TIME of & Baha'u'llah it was spread to ten countries.  Then the Master even more.  Look how many countries it is known in now, under the Guardianship.  But this doesn't mean that the Guardian is greater than & "Abdu'l-Baha, it simply means and shows the cumulative power of the Faith.  That Faith is actually more important than the Manifestation - the Prophet is at the root, the Cause of God is the sap.  But the Root is the vehicle for the sap to reach the tree.  Another example is the Seed, which is the Prophet - He gives Himself for the plant which is to come:  the Faith.

	We can pray to & Baha'u'llah, & 'Abdu'l-Baha or the greatest Holy Leaf, but we must understand this correctly.  They will intercede for us.  On the Divinity of & Baha'u'llah:  We believe that He is not the Incarnation.  He is the Reflection.  (exactly like the Mirror. )  He is not the emanation.  We must use the right word.

	The Covenant breakers:  Example:  The Lamp - the shadows and darkness always are closest to the Lamp.  The greater the Cause or Faith, the greater the tests and opposition.  Near ones wax very proud and think the Faith can't do without them.  And God proves that the Faith is independent of anyone.

	BOOK - The Igan is the most fundamental book in the B. Faith next to the AQDAS - We should memorize passages in order to teach people - and should quote them to non-believers.

	Prayers and Meditations should be read not only for devotional purposes, but for study as a text book.  It explains the station of the Prophet and that He is a reflection.

	TRINITY is true, but misinterpreted by the Christians.  It is like this:  the Sun is symbol of the God-head, and the Ray of the Sun is the Holy Spirit (explained in the Igan and in Gleanings and by & 'Abdu'l-"Baha in SAQ) the Prophet is the receiver of the rays.

	CREATION is not confined to this planet - the universe or the cosmos.  God has no beginning and no end, the material Kingdom is not confined to this world.  
	
	COVENANT  The Institution of the Covenant of the Baha'i Faith has four elements.  In the past there were three elements:  God, the Prophet and the Chosen One (One who would be the successor) i.e. God, Jesus, and Peter.  IN the & Baha'i Dispensation, we have God, the Manifestation, the Center of the Covenant ( & 'Abdu'l-Baha) and the Guardian.  & 'Abdu'l-Baha is the Mystery of God, Whose station is unique.  The Master was perfect, but not essentially divine. & Baha'u'llah was Divine.  The Master was all-knowing.  He said once:  I can tell you what is going on in Tehran."  The Master was perfect and omniscient.  He had some of the attributes of Divinity and yet was not Divine.  This is almost a contradiction, because if a thing it is human - if it is divine it is divine.  But & 'Abdu'l-Baha had both.  
Therefore & Baha'u'llah has called Him the Mystery of god.  Every Faith has its mysteries.  We must not be afraid to tell this.  In the Christian Dispensation it was the Virgin birth.  & 'Abdu'l-Baha said this was an act of direct intervention of God.  There is a Tablet not translated in which the Master said this, and explained the normal process of conception.

	Kharullah taught that the Master was Jesus, and he taught reincarnation.  The believers learned this from him, and this was the root of the violations in America.  & Baha'u'llah was the return of Jesus.  One of the functions of the trip of & 'Abdu'l-Baha to America was to clarify His station.  In New York He gave what His station was, and in Chicago and other places, He gave what it was not. 

	HERESY is when you go beyond what the Prophet taught.  Example:  like celebrating the birthday of the Greatest Holy Leaf - or her ascension.  We must not even come together on those days.  The Holy Days of the & Bab and & Baha'u'llah as Prophets are the days we must abstain from work.  We celebrate the Master's days, but we need not suspend work.  He was not a Prophet.  We do nothing on the Days of the Greatest Holy Leaf, not even gather.

	In HERESY, we can believe too much or too little.

	& Baha'ullah said we must not have anything to do with POLITICS.  People have thought it was the Master or the Guardian who said this, but it stems from & Baha'ullah.  The UNITY of the Faith is more important than its propagation.

	In an unpublished Tablet or & Baha'u'llah He says a great change will sweep over the world.  First it will be a wave of oppression, which will sweep the entire world -  Then will come the Most Great Justice.  Third will come the Most Great Peace.  The Assemblies must be very strict in establishing JUSTICE.  The individual may be kind, loving and merciful, but the Assembly must give only JUSTICE.

	Ques:  Will the NSA Members be supported financially if necessary?  Ans.  Of course.  If they are elected, it must be made possible for them to serve. 

	HUQQUQ- & Baha'ullah speaks of this in the AQDAS, but he does not say to whom it will be paid.  & 'Abdu'l-Baha answers this in His Will and Testament.  If a man is Not a Baha'i, but becomes a believer, he gives 19% of his capital as a purification of one's material possessions, then after that, he gives 1/19th of the interest on his capital, after he has paid his yearly expenses.  If a man is a (born) & Baha'i, he will give 19% of any money received, such as gifts or inheritance, as well as the yearly 19% of the interest on one's capital.  The reason for this says the Guardian, is that there must be money to carry on the work of the Guardianship and the Hands, such as propagation of the Faith.  In the future, teaching will be separate from the NSA activities.  The Hands will do this:  The teaching.  The Master went to America on the Huqquq - and the Shrine is being built mostly on Huqquq - the NSA's are to keep order.  They will deal with the affairs of State.
	
	The INTERNATIONAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE is infallible as a body when it legislates, and it is not infallible just because the Guardian is Chairman.  In one sense it is co-equal with the guardianship.  The majority vote of the body of the IHJ will carry the decision.  All decisions, if they are not unanimous will be carried as a majority vote even if the Guardian is on the minority.  This is the point where the Guardian could ask for a reconsideration of the subject.  The Guardian will not attend all meetings in person.  He will send a deputy (Hand).

	But above all things now, we must pioneer- this is more important than anything.

	Ques.  Is the Guardian infallible in his knowledge in all fields, such as history and science?  Ans.  The Guardian will not talk about things not in his field.  This in itself is a proof of his inspiration.  Where it is concerned with his explanations of the Faith, he is infallible.

	DAY OF THE COVENANT Arbitrarily & 'Abdu'l-Baha chose the Day of the Covenant to be celebrated six months from that of the Ascension of Baha'u'llah as a sign of respect to Him, as it is the farthest possible day away from the date of & Baha'u'llah's ascension.

	There are many things we cannot settle yet - such as dates, hours, etc, to celebrate Anniversaries.  (This will be decided later by the IHJ).
	
	THE AQDAS-  The Guardian was surprised to learn that Leroy Loas (Hand) had not read it!  (The English translation is typed only and supposed to be bad, and we thought it should not be read.)  The burning of an arsonist is to repay the human fault.  A house doesn't burn another house, so it would do no good to burn the house of the arsonist.  But to burn the one who set the fire is the important thing.  but & Baha'ullah adds that it should be done after much deli beration and understanding of the motives, etc.

	FAITH - Belief is not a matter of effort, it is a matter of prayer.  Faith is mostly God-given but it can be acquired through prayer.

End M. Ford's notes.

??



 

 

