PILGRIM NOTES
Ben Levy

Taken at the Dinner table - Comments from Guardian
Western Pilgrim House, 10 Persian Street
Haifa, Israel

March 9, 1953 - March 16, 1953

	The following notes as set forth are in no way authentic, and are merely impressions and comments which I thought were stated by our beloved Guardian, and should be considered as such.

	Guardians Comments at the Dinner Table, Western Pilgrim House 7:00-8:30PM March 9th, 1953

(1)  Bonn is a very important center.  The Germans are tryng to         build an assembly there by April (Note:  An Assembly was       established Ridvan 1953).

(2)  I mentioned the adornment of the Hazira with the rug from          &Baha'u'llahs tomb and the Guardian said "Yes, this is a           very precious gift and is not only a blessig but an ornament      as well."

(3)  Guardian asked "How is the Hazira (German) - is it fully           completed."  I said its beautiful and of course the outside      is yet to be stuccoed.  He said that was fine.  I said the         inside is ultra-modern and he said - "The German believers         are very fond of it, aren't they?"  I replied - yes they are      Guardian.

(4)  The Guardian said "What do the Germans think of a new Temple      being bult in Frankfurt?" . . . it doesn't have to be built 	near the Hazira but in the city of Frankfurt.  It can be 	built even on its outskirts, just so its the city, and 	within close range of the Administrative Institutions.  It 	must fulfill two conditions (1) must be nine-sided (2) must 	be circular.  First the site must  be selected;  second the 	land must be purchased and a design made.  It doesn't have 	to be designed by a &Baha'i but it is preferable.  The more 	original the better.  It doesn't have to be large - like the 	Temple in Wilmette, but it must be original and carefully 	designed.  He hopes it can be built before the completion of 	the 10-Year crusade.  It is one of the greatest tasks of the 	German believers during the next Ten Year Crusade.  The NSA 	must consider it most carefully.  Their reward for the 	completion of the Temple construction will be a portrait of 	the &Bab.  A priceless treasure.

(5)  I said "The &Baha'is all over Germany are excitedly talking 	about going to Stockholm.  They haven't much money but 	they'll get there somehow.  Probably even hitch-hike."  He 	said "Yes, the Germans have their bicycles, don't they?  	They can ride to the North Sea and then go by ship or 	train."  We all laughed heartily.  The Guardian said "Their 	(Germany's) role is very great - at the Stockholm 	Conference, during the 10-Year Crusade, and especially after 	it.  It is most important they attend."

(6)  "It was sad that dr. Grossmann couldn't go to Kampala (He 	planned to but became ill), the Guardian said, and asked if 	I had seen him before I left.  I said no, but talked over 	the phone with him and understood he was much better now.  	The Guardian said of Kampala - "The Germans were not 	represented and they were missed - needed there.  Its a 	great pity the German &Baha'is couldn't be there.  Their 	presence at all these Conferences are very important.  It 	wasn't so bad that they weren't at Kampala, because their 	field is in the Northk, and in stockholm it is most 	important they attend.  Their destiny is to struggle with 	the Russians.

(7)  America, Persia, and Germany will collaborate int he vast 	field of Russia; Germany from the west, Persia from the 	South, and America from all directions - the Guardian said.  	The he spoke of alaska and went on to say - Alaska has a 	very important position, spiritually as well as 	administratively.  It is most important that Alaska get to 	Russia.  Alaska is a base of operations - that is why we are 	developing itt there; Alaska from teh East, Germany from the 	West, Persia from the South - all converging on Russia.

(8)  Our Guardian then said "You know Alaska is the back-door to 	Russia."  I said in exclamatory tones "My gosh, Guardian.  	You know I jsut received a letter from Frances wells in 	Fairbanks several weeks ago and she remarked how strange it 	was that I was (with the Germans) at Russias front-door and 	they in alaska at her back-door."  The Guardian just smiled.

(9)  The Guardian said "Frau schwarz - she is a pillar of the 	Cause in Germany.  She is staunch - yes a pillar - a very 	devoted believer."

(10) And our Guardian asked about Edith Horn - how she was; and I 	said - fine - and she is very much loved in Germany.  Then 	the Guardian said - You know, Edith was here in 1938 (I 	believe the Guardian said that year) and I sent her to 	frankfurt from Stutggart, at a time when there was no Cause 	there- and she persevered - she held the fort - and look 	now.  Frankfurt has its Hazira and is the Administrative 	Center.  The German &Baha'is should honor Edith Horn."

(11) Herr Benke attained the station of a martyr in Bulgaria - 	said the Guardian.  The Guardian then asked about Frau Benke 	and I said I never met her but understood she was living 	with Dr. and Mrs. grossmann at Neckargemun.  I asked 	Ruhiyyih Khanum if that was correct, and she said - yes it was.

(12) Then the Guardian said "Germany and Austria - their mission 	is to work together.  He said "I have urged Germany and 	Austria to attend the Stockholm Conference.  And also the 	British Isles, Ireland, Scotland and France.  They should 	send one representative (and mentioned several other 	countries).  The Conferences are paving the way for the 	launching of the Ten-Year Crusade - a preliminary step."

(13) . . . as many visitors to Stockholm as possible, if passig 	through Norway should try if possible, to visit her grave 	(Johanna Schubart).  The Guardian said "she was not only a 	pioneer, but the Mother &Baha'i of Norway - a Mother 	pioneer.  Dagmar Dole was a pioneer - but Johanna Schubart 	was a Mother Pioneer.  Her station is much higher.

(14) I said that Dr. &Muhlschleggel and dr. Schmidt said it was 	all right to mention the death of frau Herrigal, and that 	Herman Muhlschlegel said for the last 10 years she was old 	and really harmless.  The Guardian commented "She was 	mislead by her ghusband, and Herr Herrigal was mislead by 	Mrs. White.  Ruhiyyih Khanum said that hte husband of Mrs. 	White wrote a few years ago that he didn't believe all his 	wife said, and that she was not sane, and the Guardian 	replied "Yes, she was unbalanced."

(15) . . . the Portait (of the &Bab)must be put away (speaking of 	its being viewed at Wilmette) before prayers and meditations 	begin.  Otherwise in due time it might develop into a 	Christian service.  Once prayers begin - there must be no 	picture exposed.  Baha'u'llah has forbidden this - no 	ornaments or pictures are to be hung.


(16) I said to the Guardian that all the friends, and 	particularly mentioned the Youth, were all excited about the 	possibility of pioneering in Russia and the Eastern 	Countries and that several have expressed their desire to go 	one day, and he replied that its to oearly to think of 	Russia - but rather direct their eyes upon and think of 	Germany.  Germany must make itself a base upo0n which to 	launch the Crusade to the East - expand existing isolated 	centers - strength and conslidate present communities.

(17) Germany has a great destiny in the Baltic States, the 	Balkans, and Scandanavia.  They will proceed to the Ukrains 	and as far as the heart of Russia.  The Master said theat 	Germany had a great destiny, and revealed it at a time when 	little was known of the Cause in the North.  Now look at it 	today.  The light of the Faith will radiate to the North, 	East, and South.

(18) Marion Jack is a great soul - a pride of the pioneers in 	East and West; an example to all pioneers; she has 	persevered long and hard.  The Master called her "General 	Jack."  She has the spirit of Martha r"oot - combination of 	heroism and saintliness; some are either heroic or saintly.  	Persians aren't all saints.  They are pious but not all 	saintly.  Martha Root combined three qualities - martyr, 	heroine, and saint - a unique distinction.  Saintliness is 	very rare - it comes from purity of motive.

(20) The Holy Land, Persia, and america is in very great danger.  	Persia is the cradle of the Faith - it is in constant 	danger.  America is the stronghold of the administrative 	Order in the West.  The cradle and the stronghold are both 	in deanger.  The Holy Land is the spiritual center - it too 	is in great danger.  But in spite of that we launch 10-year 	Crusade.  Look at the second Seven Year plan and Europe.  It 	was conceived alike.  There were very few centers before it 	began.  Europe was groaning and improverished. 

(21) He hopes there will be 60 NSA's after the 10-Year Crusade.  	They are Pillars of the Universal House of Justice.  First 	the Pillars- then the Universal House of Justice as the dome 	(i.e. Monument of the greatest Holy Leaf).  Amelia Bowman 	asked if the Universal House of Justice wuld be established 	by 1963 - he said not necessarily.  The Greatest Holy Leaf 	is the symbol of the Administrative Order.  The main thing 	is - teach the Cause - extend its range - consoidate its 	foundation.  First the Local, then National, Later 	International.

(22) Goal Countries - won't have outside pioneering in the Ten 	Year Plan - only within their own countries.  First, will 	establish Regional National Assemblies. 

(23) Alaska will have its own NSA - in the Ten Year plan.  Will 	be a Pillar of the Universal House of Justice in the North.  	Will have its own national endownments and Hazira.  Alaska 	is the back-door of Russia.  I asked where the Haziara would 	be located and the guardian replied that it will be decided 	by the NSA when it is formed.  First two things:  One - 	multiply local assemblies.  Second - Establish a Natinal 	Assembly.

(24) Fairbanks is near the Arctic Circle.  There is a spiritual 	competition between Canada and Alaska who will go beyond the 	Arctic Circle first.  They are aiming beyond the Arctic 	Circle.

(25) The Guardian said "You know, Alaska is going to have its own 	National Spiritual assembly during the 10-Year Crusade". . . 	there is good news from Alaska - they have property now - 	their owwn endowment.  This is very fine - near Anchorage I 	believe."  I said yes, I know - and Ruhiyyih Khanum asked 	where - and I told them of the Huffmans and Greggorys 	donating the land - 10 acres each, I believe.

Guardians Comments at the Dinner Table, Western Pilgrim House March 11, 1953

(1)  I asked about the peacock and if it was true it was the 	symbol of immortality.  Guardian said yes - and was 	recognized undoubtedly as the most beautiful bird in the 	world.  &Baha'u'llah referred to it as the bird of paradise 	in many Tablets.

(2)  Spoke about the eagle, and how majestic they were.  The 	eagle is the symbol of ascendency - ascendency of the Cause 	- that is why many eagles adorn the surroundings of the 	Shrines, at Bahji, at the Shrine of the &Bab.  It represents 	the ascendency of the Cause in the world - not imperialism 	but of power and ascent.

(3)  It (the Year Nine) commemorates Birth of & Baha'u'llah's 	Revelation.  The Centenary of the &bab 9 years ago 	commemorated the birth of the Babi revelation which 	announced the Revaltion of &Baha'u'llah.  &Baha'u'llah kept 	it a secret from mankind for 10 years.

(4)  I mentioned to our Guardian how beautiful the grounds at 	Bahji were, and that the grass lawn surrounding the Shrine 	itself was like a velvet carpet, with the lights at evening  	casting a shimemering profusion of soft shadows and light 	around the landcape.  He smiled and was pleased.  He asked 	"How is the grass in Germany?  Is it as beautiful as the 	grass here?"  I smiled and said that I knew Germany was	 	famous for their landscaping adn gardening and flowers, abut 	didn't think it was as beautiful.

(5)  Mentioned to our Guardian how different it was for me as an 	American coming to Germany; that it was a great change; that 	the Germans think so differently.  Our Guardian said in 	reply that the Germans are very painstaking  painstaking and 	methodical - deep.  And they are loyal; are anything but 	superficial.  They don't just read - they study.  They pay 	great attention to detail.  Germans have ag reat capacity - 	great endurance - great vitality.

(6)  Germany, Persia, and America - through alaska, borders 	Russia.  That is why they have a great mission there.

(7)  The Year Nine is the Birth of &Baha'u'llahs Revelation.  	&Baha''llah I kept it a secret for 10 years.  First 	intimation - He disclosed it to His companions who were 	exiled with Him.  In Adrianople He proclaimed His Mission to 	the rulers of the earth.  First dire t intimation; then 	declaration to companion; to proclamation to all mankind.  	Proclamation began in Adrianople - ended in Akka.

(8)  Reply of Queen Victoria "if this is of God . . ."etc p is 	hearsay - we are not sure she said this.  No kings or rulers 	replied to His Tablets.  some completely disregarded his 	summons.  Napoleon was reported to have said - "if this man 	is God I'm two Gods" - one year later he was defeated in the 	Franko-Prussian War. - his only son was killed in the Zulu 	War.  The Pope lost his temporal power and retreated to the 	Vatican where he improsoned himself.

(9)  Amelia Bowman spoke of "lamentation of Berlin Our Guardian 	pointed out that during the 1st World War this prophecy was 	fulfilled - the people lamented teheir loss of the war - 	their poverty and abasement.

(10) Monarchies are being overthrown; accelerated since the time 	of the Masters death as He predicted.  France and Germany 	became a republic - also China became republic;  In 	Portuagal the monarchy became a Republic.  The Czar fell - 	later germany and Austria.  The decline of monarchy 	increased after teh Masters death.  Then Turkey fell - then 	the Qajar dynasty - which is still tottering in Persia.  A 	series of monarchies have fallen - Bulgaria - Albania - 	Hungary - Servia - all became republics (then listed more).  	- later came Italy.  Fourteen monarchies have fallen since 	&Bahau'llah gave His message.  The process still continues.  	Kingdoms were absed.  Some lost their thrones - others were 	humiliated - others humiliated themselves by theeir own acts 	(Farouk was mentioned and the guardian agreed of that as a 	recent example).

(11) There is the decline in the East and the West.  Princess of 	India have lost their princedoms.  They wre protected by 	England and suddenly most were absorbed by the Republic of 	India.  Hundreds of princes have lost their position and 	provinces to the Republic of India.  Amelia Bowman asked 	about Pakistan and the Guardian explained that through 	Moslem - this is no doubt temporary and will be absorbed 	later by the Republic of india.  The &Baha'is have a very 	great struggle there in the East.  The process of princedom 	being lost will continue. 

(12) Just as the Jews have crucified Christ - they suffered 2000 	years of persecution - so also will the moslems experience a 	similar fate.  The Jews rejected Christ - the Moslems, 	&Baha'u'llah and His Cause.

(13) I mentioned that I always thought of the German people as 	having great minds and that i've seen much narrow-mindedness 	in the peoples - Catholic especially.  The Guardian said 	most Cathoics are in southern Germany - Luthe rans in the 	North.  He said that the opposition from the Moslem is now 	spreading to the Christian Chrurch; it began in America with 	the Presbyterians - has spread to the Anglican Church I		England.  The Anglicans are very influential there and has 	officially denounced the Faith in England.  There are many 	Presbyterian and Anglican missionaries in Persia.  The 	Anglican Church has attacked the Faith in Persia; - 	gradually it will spread to the Orthodox Russian Church - 	they are very strong.  And - eventually it will go to the 	Catholic Church.  Its culmination wil end with the Pope.  	His opposition will lead to his downfall.  By opposing the 	Faith he will plant the seeds of his own destruction.

(14) On the Fiji Islands teh moslems have officially declared the 	&Baha'is as infidels.  They are very influential there.  	They are dominant there.

(15) Godlessness and unbelief - decline of religion.  People are 	becoming more nationalist and less religious.  The Jews in 	Israel are nationalistists.  Religious leaders are becoming 	subservient to the State, instead of the State becoming 	subservient to religion.

(16)  Uphold non-interference in politics.  We are above parties 	- we are God's Party - the Master called us God's Party.  We 	promote Gods polity - not "Gods politicss.  I lay down the 	principle and NSA's apply it.  The NSA has the 	responsibility to determine if believers can vote for a 	given party without being identified with it.  &Baha'is must 	be completely free in voting - detached from any party.























	
??



 

 

