[obit. Marion Hofman, 1910-1995, see
American Baha'i, February 7, 1996] 
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Pilgrim Notes of Marion Holley Hofman

1953
[Unedited online version provided by Robert Stauffer, 1998.
Any errors from original (including "Hofman" spelled as "Hoffman") retained.]


[Notes at the end of the manuscript: "Mrs. Marion Hoffman first heard of the Faith through Mary Maxwell (now our beloved Ruhiyyih Khanum) and after a very short but dynamic conversation she accepted Baha'u'llah and His Cause. She was a well-beloved teacher in the U.S. and later married David Hoffman. They now live in England and operate the Ronald Press, producer of many Baha'i books.
From the notebook of Laura R. Davis.
Material received from Mrs. Rosemary Sala of Port Elizabeth. South Africa."]

------------------------------------------------------------------------
[page 1]

"The Administrative Order will gradually evolve into the World Order."

LeRoy: The establishment of Universal Peace does not mark the World Order?

Guardian: "No, No! The Lesser Peace will in all probability be in the Formative Age of the Faith. The Golden Age will witness the Most Great Peace. The Lesser Peace is a non-Baha'i World Superstate. The Most Great Peace is the Baha'i Superstate; the proper term is Commonwealth.

World Civilization will be the result of the establishment of the Most Great Peace. The establishment of the Commonwealth will follow the Most Great Peace as a development of it and the World Civilization will follow that as an evolution. It is a very long process from germ to maturity. It started in the Heroic Age and will culminate in the Baha'i Cycle, not in the Baha'i dispensation. This is more than the fruit; it is the Fruition. (Note three steps).

The Superstate will go on perfecting itself. It will take some time before International problems are solved and the Superstate begins to function properly. Meantime the Baha'i World Order will be developing and gradually it will absorb the non-Baha'i Superstate. when the nations are united and functioning as part of one whole, the Baha'i world Order will be progressing and will gradually absorb one nation, then another. We have to wait until the majority of nations are Baha'i before we have the Baha'i world Commonwealth.

When the majority in a state become Baha'is, it will cease to be democratic and will become theocratic, following the Laws of Baha'u'llah - essentially religious. Ours is neither democratic nor secular for the simple reason that Baha'i representatives are not responsible to the people, but to the Universal House of Justice. The representatives are elected by the people, which is democratic, but are responsible to a higher body. the rule is of God, not the rule of the people. Democracy is the rule of, for, and by the people. The Baha'i state is the rule of God for the people by the Representatives of the people; essentially Divine, true theocracy. The Catholics believe their's is a theocracy, but there is a difference: their theocracy is man made.

World Order develops through National Communities. As nations pass through these stages (stated in Adevnt) World Order will be evolving at the same time and when the majority of the nations are Baha'i, the Baha'i World Commonwealth will be reached.

............

MHH: What is the spiritual condition of humanity during most of the Dispensation? (I had reference to the WOB as the "sole refuge" and that the whole of humanity didn't reach it until near the close of the Dispensation."

G. While politically developing, the world is spiritually declining all the time. The world will feel more and more in need of a spiritual

------------------------------------------------------------------------
[page 2]


revival and the WOB which is developing all the time, will be its deliverance. The world has to be politically united, then spiritualized. Political unity and spiritual revival - these are two essential needs of the world at the present time: unified and spiritualized; politically united and spiritually vitalized.

The great disaster that befell the Roman Empire was confined to the Empire, whereas this is on a world scale. A world convulsion which prepares man for political unification and ultimately spiritual revival.

The World Crusade as two aspects: territorial, the propagation; the administrative, the establishment of institutions. When Pioneers arrive at their posts, they must not think they have accomplished territorial expansion, but they must start building the administration - local LSA's, and National in the future. The reason why Baha'is scatter is not only to scatter but to increase numbers. The movement from place to place must be supplemented by action:

           Move, settle, teach
           Arise, Persevere, Establish,
           Respond to pioneer call, lay foundations
           By increasing number of believers.

...1......

TEMPLES

The Temple on Mount Carmel will be the Mother Temple of the Holy Land; that of London, the Mother Temple of the British Isles; Sydney, the Mother Temple of the Antipodes; Paris, the Mother Temple of France; Sydney will have the Mother Temple of the British Commonwealth unless Canada beats it. In this case the mother will have to let the child surpass it!

Ishqabad Temple was built with bricks on a plain;
Wilmette Temple was built by a lake with concrete;
Persia and Germany will be built of stone.
Later they will be built of marble. Eventually rubies, precious stones will be used.

The Master named five doors of the Shrines after believers associated with the building of it. One person later became a Covenant-Breaker but his name will remain associated with his door.

Baha'u'llah is the founder of the Shrine, and much more, He is the Founder of the whole set of Institutions on Mount Carmel. He is the Founder of both the spiritual and the administrative centers. The Tablet of Carmel is the Charter of the World Order of the Faith just as the Will is the Charter of the Administrative Order. We build according to the direction of these Charters. The Divine plan constitutes the 3rd Charter for the propagation of the Faith. There are three distinct processes:

1. Building the administrative Order according to the Will.
2. Propagation of the Faith according to the Divine Plan.
3. Building up the World Center according to the Tablet of Carmel.

Note. The Guardian sat a long time in silence after this.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
[page 3]


G. Communism was never successful among the peasants, but only in industrial areas. Russia will make this experiment but in the end will see that it is not successful. Meanwhile the world and Russia will suffer.

1st epoch, the 25 years of the Formative Age distinguished by the rise of local and National Institutions;
2nd epoch (now) distinguished by the rise of world institutions - Shrine of the Bab, establishment of the International Council prelude to the U.H.J.;
Purchase of land on Mt. Carmel (now about half million square metres);
120 acres of land on Mt. Carmel and in Akka;
Purchase on land for the Baha'i Temple -;
All this is evidence that the World Center of the Faith is being established in the Holy Land.;
Appointment of the Hands

The final stages in the evolution of human society.

Adolescence - now - efflorescence of Tree of Divine Revelation.;
Coming of Age World Unification.;
       Superstate;
       Lesser Peace;
Most Great Peace. Spiritualization of man.;
       Fruition of Tree of Divine Revelation.

When all the processes merge, it will mark the birth of World Civilization. This is the starting point of a succession of dispensations culminating in the maturity of the World Order of Baha'u'llah, the majority of the Fruit of the Tree of Progressive Revelation, and the maturity of human society (all this together).
The World Order of Baha'u'llah is progressing, but purely Baha'i. At the same time the world is progressing. Divine Revelation is progressing. (Here the Guardian showed a chart which he did not wish to be copied, showing this process) It is interesting how the two will merge: World Order and human Society, because they have to; they cannot go on being separate processes. The Baha'i World and the non-Baha'i world will meet in the World Civilization. They culminate in the same thing. Both culminate in the Baha'i World Commonwealth towards the end of the Baha'i Dispensation (not Cycle) and this leads to the birth of the world Spiritual Civilization. This is the fruit of the Golden Age.

(Note) In speaking of the world process of Human Society and showing it on the Chart, he told us that this process ends when it merges with the Baha'i process of World Order.)

The process of the Diffusion of the Light of Baha'u'llah throughout the Planet - starts with Adam. In a way it is the evolution of the Divine Revelation... From Adam to the Bab is represented by the branch, leaf, bud and flower. The Bab is the fruit if one compares Him to the olive tree. The olive tree is mentioned in the Koran, not without reason. It is a different simile altogether. (See Convention Message USA 1953, also July Br. Journal #81.)
This is the station of the Bab: I compare it to the fruit. The olive sacrifices itself for the oil. The oil is ignited - this is Baha'u'llah.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
[page 4]


The Koran refers to the tree that belongs neither to the East nor the West, and the oil is so powerful that it lights by itself. This oil refers to the Bab; when it is ignited it becomes Baha'u'llah. This happened in the Siyah Chal.
(S.E. then read from the Surah of Light. Sales version, sec. 5 v. 35.)

"Allah is the Light of the heavens and of the earth; a likeness of His light is as a pillar on which is a lamp, the lamp is in a glass, and the glass is as it were a brightly shining star, lit from a blessed olive tree, neither eastern nor western, the oil thereof gives light though fire touch it not - light upon light - Allah guides to his light whom He pleases, and Allah sets forth parables for men and Allah is cognizant of all things."

In the Siyah-Chal the light is only a faint glimmer, a flicker; soon enveloped by clouds, for ten years obscured, eclipsed by calamities. Then Baha'u'llah revives the community; the flicker becomes a lamp lighted in Baghdad. When Baha moved to Adrianople, the lamp was lighted in a crystal globe, meaning the stage of proclamation of the message in Adrianople: it shown more brightly. The light was confined to the East at this time. when Baha passed on, through the Covenant the Light strikes the "fingers" of the Continents of America, Europe and Australia. After the Master, as a result of the birth of the Administrative Order, (its father, the Law of Baha, its mother of the Covenant) the light spread over all continents. This is the stage we now witness. It is now "diffusing its light over all continents. Then it will "penetrate." When the Administrative Order is firmly established in each country, this firm establishment will cause penetration of that Light that its first flicker in the "year Nine". The olive tree and also the almond tree; these are very similare because the fruit of both give oil.

In the Koran the olive is symbolic of the Chrisitan Dispensation and the fig is symbolic of the Mosaic. In the Tablet of Rais (Prime Minister of Turnkey) Baha says that 'once We appeared as a olive (Mount of olives) or Zetah and once as a fig. In another passage in the Koran, Mohammad swears by the fig and the olive (i.e. by the Chrisitan and Mosaic Dispensations) and by 'this noble city, which means Mecca. The Muslim dispensation is not symbolized by the tree, but by Mt. Paran, near Sinai. Missionaries have derided Mohammad for swearing by trees, whereas He meant Dispensations. All three mountains are mentioned in Deuteronomy: Sinai, Paran and Seir (Christian) and the "10,000 saints" referring to Baha (33.2)

MHH asked: Will there be the same process each 500,00 years?

S.E. "Beyond 500,000 it is much too distant. There is nothing in the Teachings to reveal the station of the Manifestation after that.

L.I. "Will humanity start all over again in each universal cycle?"

S.E. "We do not know if humanity will start over again."

(Note) The Guardian showed us a chart. RK told us that he had been working on it all day. He did not wish us to copy it. The following are the actual headings and sub-headings.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
[page 5]


STAGES IN THE EVOLUTION OF HUMAN SOCIETY

circa 4156 B.C. - 501844 or Baha'i Cycle.

A. Adamic or Prophetic Cycle: circa 4156 BC-1844 A.D.
        (lost of 7 Relgions below.)

B. Cycle of fulfillment : circa 1844-501,844 Baha'i Cycle.
     1. Baha'i Dispensation at least 1000 years.
        Babi Revelation
        Baha'i Revelation.

2. Succession of Dispensations.

(Note: 4156 BC comes from the statement that Adam appeared 6000 years ago; subtract 6000 from 1844 A.D.
Also note that "Baha'i Era and Baha'i Dispensation are the same)
Baha'i Cycle is different.)

The Revelation of the Bab is the 8th Revelation. This is why the throne of God is carried by eight (Bible) and why there are 8 pillars, eight minerals, eight doors, in the Shrine of the Bab. It is one before nine.

The Seven Religions of the Adamic Sycle:

Hinduism	Aryan	India
Sabeansim	Semetic	Iraq
Judaism	Semetic	Palestine	circa 1500.B.C.
Zoroastrianism	Aryan	Persia	1000 B.C.
Buddhism	Aryan	India	600 B.C.
Christianity	Semetic	Palestine
Islam	Semetic	Arabia	632 A.D.

The process of World Order starts only with the Baha'i Revelation. The Administrative Order is in the embryo and has three stages: Local, National, and International Baha'i Institutions. We are now starting the third stage. It will gradually lead to the birth of World Order - the offspring. This will pass through the phases of

1. Obscurity	3. Emancipation	5. Establishment
2. Repression	4. Recognition	6. Sovereignty.

The emergence of a Baha'i World Commonwealth marks the coming of age of the World Order of Baha'u'llah, signalizing the establishment of the Most Great Peace, This is the Golden Age.

This has never happened before nor could ever happen any other time. The planet was not yet discovered when Mohammad appeared, neither America nor the Far East; so it was impossible for Mohammad or the Prophets before Him to stress the unification of man. First the world had to be discovered; then science developed; then the world must contract - this marks the coming of age - the culmination of the 6000 year process. nothing more important happens in the life of man than reaching 21. Something happens inside him. (spiritually, psychologically,) Maturity reached at 40 is due to the change that came over him at 21. What happens at 21 is more important than what happens at 40, for the latter change is determined by what happens at 21. That is why the Revelation of Baha'u'llah is so important ...This is the answer Baha'is must give when people object to our saying that other major Prophets will be under Baha'u'llah's shadow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
[page 6]


This is the only answer we can give.

We do not claim finality. All other Religions do claim it, and the Baha'i are fundamentally different. In fact no Revelation will be final after Baha'u'llah. It is unreasonable to assert that Divine Revelation is final, it is progressive, and indefinitely so. But, at the same time we must assert that future Revelations will be under His shadow. We are not contradicting ourselves when we disclaim finality, yet claim that Revelations after Him will be under His shadow. The Revelators following will give Laws better suited to the evolution of humanitya as it progresses but His spiritual station will be less.

Baha'is claims are very challenging, tremendous, but essentially reasonable. We make the most tremdendous claim, are are most reasonable. No one had made a greater claim than Baha'u'llah in history, and no one of the Prophets a lesser claim than Mohammad because He, Mohammad, stressed the least challenging aspect of God. In the Iqan Baha'u'llah gives all the stations of the Manifestations (the Guardian quoted them here) "If We say we are servants, we are right; and if we say we are God, We are also right." Mohammad claimed only to be the Messenger of God, the least challenging. Baha'u'llah did the opposite. He claimed to be the reflection of God. When One claims a very high station, all lower ones are included.

Previous Prophets were all "preliminary" Manifestations, preparing the way for Him, under His shadow. Like John's relation to Christ the Bab to Baha'u'llah. There are two distinct Cycles - the Adamic or Prophetic; and the Baha'i Cycle. The word, Prophet" means "announcer"; all those who appearing announced the coming of Baha'u'llah and paved the way. Their purpose was Baha'u'llah's Revelation, although They were major Prophets, independent, with Books and established new Dispensations. The "Seal of the Prophets" means the last of the Prophets" to announce" (Seal means last, prohhet means "to announce".

Alaska is the connecting link between the Baha'is of the USA and the USSR through which the Americans will have to pass (to teach the Cause) They will enter Russia through Alaska. The Baha'is will converge on Russia from different directions and in all Soviet Republics the Cause will be established. Iraq, Persia, Germany, (into the Ukraine) the USA - all will converge on Russia. Eventually Siberia itself will be open to the Faith. Baha'is have been banished there. It is a huge concentration camp. I have promised their relatives that in Siberia there will be LSA's and a Mashirqu'l-Ahskar.

Just as Fezan, the Central Province of Lybia, has been opened to the Faith, it is quite possible there will be an LSA this Ridvan. Abdul-Hamid intended to banish the Master there...Cyprus too is historic. Subi-Azel is buried not far from Famagusta where he lived. The Persians will send pioneers there. They should disburse all over Cyprus as soon as Necosia has an LSA. There will be an LSA in Famagusta.

Baha'i invalids, especially in London, should dispurse. It would be very good for the Cause and very good for their health. They should go to semi-tropical islands: Madeira, Canaries, Mediterranean islands. The British NSA reports are concise, precise, It is easy to read their reports. They always distinguish between the essential and non-essential, neither

------------------------------------------------------------------------
[page 7]


too detailed or too abridged. The USA still has too many details.

Commenting on 1000 Jewish visitors on day to the Shrine, S.E, said: The fundamental reason why the Jews, after 2000 years of dispersal returned to Palistine is to become supporters of the Faith at its World Center. This is their future destiny. Their immediate destiny is to build up their state which is very valuable to the Faith. The Arabs would never have done this.... the Jews are 'cousins of the British" in tenacity and courage. They fought very bravely when defending their State. They are great thinkers, a scientific mind. They are keen business men - also a British trait.

S.E. told us that John R his wife and daughter have settled in Bechuanaland, in Mafeking. His son is a university student in Johannesburg and another son is pioneering elsewhere in Africa.

The period of Baha'u'llah's service started with the Declaration of the Bab. In the 9 years of the Bab's ministry the Cause spread to 2 countries; in the 39 years of Baha's ministry the Cause spread to 15 Oriental countries; in 29 years of Abdu'l-Baha's ministry, 20 were added (9.39.29 strange coincidence) in that 3⁄4 of a century number of countries was 35. When the Cause was in the days of its infancy, its spread was necessarily slow. It spreadmore in the days of the Master, not because it was a superior time but because the Cause had more vitality.

.....................

[END] 
