Persian Bayan. By Sayyid `Ali Muhammad Shirazi, the Bab. Begun in the
  fortress of Mah-Ku early in 1848. Persian text published, Tehran, 1946.

       References: Denis MacEoin, Sources for Early Babi Doctrine and History
       (Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1992), pp. 83-84, passim; Rosen, Collections Scientifiques,
       vol. 3, pp. 1-32; Browne, "The Babis of Persia II," pp. 918-33; E.G. Browne, "A
       Summary of the Persian Bayan," in Momen, Selections from the Writings of
       E.G. Browne, pp. 316-406. French trans. A.L.M. Nicolas: Le Beyan Persan, 4
       vols. (Paris, 1911-1914).

trans. Dr. Denis MacEoin



Exordium

In the Name of God, the Inaccessible, the Most Holy

Praise and sanctification are due to the regal substance of holiness,
glory, and majesty, Who has existed eternally and will continue to exist in
the being of His own Essence, Who has always been and always will be
exalted in His own eternity, far above the comprehension of all things. He
did not create the sign of His knowledge within any other being other than
by means of the incapacity of all things to know Him; nor did He shine
forth upon any other thing other than through His own Self. He has,
therefore, always been lifted high above association with any other thing,
and He brought all things into existence in order that they might all
confess before Him on the Day of Resurrection within the being of their
true selves that He has neither peer nor equal, nor rival, nor likeness,
nor similitude.

No, He has been and remains alone in the dominion of His own Godhood, He
has been and remains glorified in the sovereignty of His own Lordship.
Nothing else has ever recognized Him as He deserves to be recognized, nor
can anything ever hope to do so, for whatever mention of existence they
might apply to Him would itself have already been created by the sovereign
power of His own Will, and He Himself would already have shone forth on it
with His own Self upon the exalted heights of His Throne.
He created the sign of His knowledge within the depths of all things in
order that they might be sure that He is the First and the Last, the
Manifest and the Hidden, the Creator and the Sustainer, the Powerful and
the Knowing, the Hearing and the Seeing, the One Who Buries and the One Who
Raises the Dead, the Giver of Life and the Giver of Death, the Mighty and
the Inaccessible, the Exalted and the All-Highest. He it is Who has never
guided and will never guide anyone unless it be to the exaltation of His
glorification and the sublimity of His praise and the inaccessibility of
His Oneness and the elevation of His magnification.

No beginning is there for Him save in His own primacy, and no end is there
for Him save in His own finality. And all things have acquired their
essences according to what He has ordained or shall ordain within them
through His own Essence, and they have taken on reality through His Being.
Through It God began the creation of all things, and through It He will
return the creation of all things to Himself. All the beautiful names have
existed for Its sake, and it is for Its sake that they continue to exist.
The depths of His Essence are sanctified from all names and descriptions,
and the purity of His Reality is lifted up above every splendour and every
exaltation, and His naked Essence is far above any inaccessibility or
altitude. He is the First, but He cannot be known as such; He is the Last,
but He cannot be adequately described as such; He is the Outward, but He
cannot be characterized as such; He is the Inward, but He cannot be grasped
as such.

And He is the first to believe in Him Whom God Shall Manifest (man
yuzhiruhu 'llah ), and He is the first to have believed in him who has
appeared. He is a single thing, through whose creation all things are
created, and through whose sustenance all things are sustained, and through
whose death the death of all things is manifested, and through whose life
the life of all things is manifested, and through whose resurrection the
resurrection of all things is manifested.

The eye of creation has never seen nor shall it ever see anything like Him,
whether in the past or in the future. He is the Name of the Essence ( ism
al-huwiyya ) and the Face of Lordship that resides within the shadow of the
Countenance of Divinity and gives token of the sovereignty of the Divine
Singleness. If I only knew that all things might taste His love, I would
not even mention the Fire, for Hell was created in its essence according to
what is within it and what is upon it, for the sole reason that it did not
bow down before Him. Otherwise, were all things to taste His love, they
would be light created from light within light unto light upon light. God
guides to His light whomever He wishes, and God lifts up to His light
whomever He wills. He is the One Who begins and the One to Whom all things
return in the end.

He it is for Whom God, the One, the Single, through the manifestation of
His own Self, created seventeen persons who were brought into being before
the creation of all other things, out of His own Person. He then caused the
sign of their recognition to reside in the realities of all beings, in
order that all things might bear witness in their inmost essences to the
truth that He is the primal Unity, the One who lives for all eternity. He
has not commanded anyone among the contingent beings other than to know its
own self and the singleness of the depths of its own reality. For all
others but Him are nothing but His creatures, brought into being through
His command. Both creation and command belong to Him, in the past and in
the future. He is Lord of all the worlds.

Wherefore, let it not be concealed from anyone who looks on these words
that God has caused the creation of the Qur'an to return on the Day of
Judgement through the manifestation of His own Self upon that Day.
Whereupon, He has created all things freshly, as if they had all just been
brought into existence at that very instant For all that has ever been
created was for the Day of the appearance of God, for He it is in which all
things reach their end, and He it is in Whom they achieve their destiny.
After He manifested Himself through the appearance of the signs of His
power, there can be no doubt at all that all things have reached the Divine
Presence in that state of perfection which they are capable of attaining.
God, may He be praised and glorified, has created the Primal Will once
more, and through It He has created all things. And, since all things have
been mentioned in a new creation, this is a proof that His creation has
neither beginning nor end. Wherefore, there has never been a situation in
which God was Lord and there were no created beings to worship Him. God has
existed eternally in the exaltation of His Holiness, and all others have
existed in the degradation of their own limitations.

The beginning of the creation of all things at this instant, which is a
Friday, has taken place through the words God has uttered. His Holiness,
the Lord of Glory, brought this new creation into being through His own
decree and caused it to rest beneath His shadow in order that it may return
to Him. For there can be no doubt that God brings that creation into
existence and then makes it return to Himself. God, indeed, is powerful
over all things. He structured the creation of all things according to the
number of 'All Things', through the decrees which He caused to come down
from the court of His holiness and which He caused to shine forth from the
sun of His own bounty, in order that all things, through the mention of all
things, might reach a state of perfection for the sake of the manifestation
of the next resurrection, so that He might reward each thing with the
reward due to all things. If this reward should turn out to be that of
rejection, it will be part of His justice; if it should turn out to be that
of acceptance, that will be on account of His grace, for His knowledge of
all things before the existence of all things is identical to His knowledge
of them after their coming into being; and His power over all things before
their creation is the same as His power over them after their creation.
From all eternity, God has possessed knowledge of all things and power over
them. To Him belong the most beautiful names, both before and after; all
that is in the heavens and all that is on earth and all that lies between
them recites His praise. No god is there but He, the Powerful, the Beloved.
Behold with the eyes of certitude how the gates of the religion of the
Bayan have been arranged according to the number of All Things. In the
shadow of each gate, by God's permission, the angels that belong to the
heavens and to the earth and to all that lies between, are bowing down,
praising, sanctifying, glorifying, and magnifying Him, as they carry out
their tasks on His behalf. On the day of the appearance of God, which is
the appearance of the Point of the Bayan, all things shall return to Him
when it draws to its close. And if blessed individuals to the number of All
Things should return to Him, the fruit of all things will have been
manifested in His presence. Blessed be he that is raised up on the Day of
Resurrection before God, for God will welcome him from one of the gates of
all things, inasmuch as he is the essence of that soul to which anyone who
has believed in the Bayan shall return, on account of what he has performed
in that gate. Wherefore, listen to that, then hasten, then hasten, then
hasten, then hasten, for God is the swiftest of reckoners.

If all the gates of all things should not appear before Him, then He will
decree the return of the creation of the Bayan, and will fold up in His
hand all the heavens that have been lifted up within it, just as in the
Qur'an a multiplicity of gates without number were rendered even more
numerous before those who believed in Him, and yet at the moment when God
decreed the return of the creation of the Qur'an, there was no-one in His
presence but a single individual, who becomes one of the gates of the
decree of the Remembrance before Him. Thus God performs whatever He wishes
and decrees whatever He desires. He shall not be asked of His doings, but
all shall be asked of all that they do.

At the moment when the creation of the Qur'an returned and the creation of
all things in the Bayan commenced, the dwelling-place of the Point, who is
the Manifestation of Lordship, was upon the Land of the name Basit.
Whereupon, the heavens that had been raised up in the Qur'an were all
folded up and returned to the Primal Point. None bears witness to that but
God and he that is with Him, although He did not send down in the Qur'an
any subject more important than that of the resurrection and its
revelation. God is the Reckoner of the number of souls who had believed in
the religion of the Qur'an. And at the moment of return, out of all these
souls, there was only one soul in God's presence, who became the number of
All Things; and the creation of all things took place in a second creation
at the command of God, the Exalted. Wherefore, watch over your souls, O
people of the Bayan, lest you be veiled from God your Lord, though you
desire day and night to sanctify yourselves.


Unity One, Chapter One

In the first chapter of the number of All Things, the decree which God -
praised be He and glorified - has rendered obligatory is the declaration:
'there is no god but God, truly, truly'. Wherefore, the whole of the Bayan
shall return to this declaration, and the appearance of a new creation
shall take place from it. The recognition of this declaration is
conditional on recognition of the Point of the Bayan, which God has made
the essence of the Letters of the Seven. Whoever realizes that he is the
Point of the Qur'an in his end and the Point of the Bayan in his beginning,
and that he is the Primal Will that exists in its own self, through whose
decree all things are created and in whom they subsist, his essence has
borne witness to the singleness of his Lord. But whoever has not believed
in him is rejected and shall enter the fire. What fire is further removed
than he who has not believed in him? And he who has believed shall enter
into affirmation. What paradise is more exalted than the one who believes
in him? It is a declaration that has praised and magnified and extolled and
sanctified and glorified its Lord at morn and eventide.

Regard not this declaration except as you look upon the sun in the
heavens, and regard not him who believes in him except as you regard the
mirror. Indeed, whosoever believes in the essence of the Letters of the
Seven, his inner being shall be given assistance by one of the names of
God, praised be He and glorified, and his outer being shall be a leaf among
the leaves of the Tree of Affirmation. All things return to this one thing,
and all things are created through this one thing. This one thing shall be,
in the next resurrection, none other than he whom God shall manifest, who,
in every degree, utters the words, 'Verily, I am God, no god is there
beside Me, the Lord of all things. All save Me is my creation. Wherefore, O
My Creation, worship Me!' And know that he is the mirror of God, from whom
the mirror of the physical universe (mulk ) is rendered luminous, which is
made up of the Letters of the Living. In him none can be seen except God
Himself. Whoever in the Bayan utters the declaration, 'there is no god but
God', turns towards God through him, for his creation began in him and to
him his creation shall return.

The fruit of this knowledge is that, at the time of the appearance
of him whom God shall manifest, you should not say, 'we say "there is no
god but God" and this is the basis of religion'. For what you say is but a
reflection from his sun, which has shone forth in his first manifestation.
He is more worthy of this declaration in his own self than are the
realities of all created things, for if the mirror should say 'the sun is
in me', it is evident to the sun that it is but its reflection speaking.

O creation of the Bayan, we have caused you to know the exaltation
of your existence in the declaration of your Lord, that you may not be
veiled by the truth from him whom God shall manifest on the Day of
Resurrection. That of which you speak resembles its appearance in your
hearts and that concerning which he speaks. That it is to which God has
borne witness in Himself, that there is no god but He, the Preserver, the
Self-Subsistent. In this day, whoever in the Qur'an should utter this
declaration, which is the essence of the faith, it cannot be doubted that
he shall have uttered what Muhammad, the Messenger of God, uttered before
this. The sun of this declaration was in his (Muhammad's) heart, and its
reflection shone forth in those who utter (that declaration) today.
Wherefore, it returns to him in his second appearance, which is the
appearance of the Point of the Bayan, not in his first appearance, for in
his first revelation the tree of oneness had not been raised up in the
realities of created beings. Now that one thousand two hundred and seventy
years have passed, this tree has reached the stage of fruition. Everyone
in whom there is a reflection of that sun of the Point of the Qur'an, which
is identical with the Point of the Bayan, must needs be manifested before
him.

I have used as an example the highest declaration, upon which the
faith of all men depends. The beginning of faith is confirmed through its
utterance, and all speak it at the moment of death and finally return to it.
Wherefore, the reflections of the mirrors return only to that in which they
had their origin. If the mirror should remove that portion of the sun's
reflection that lies within it, it will return to it [the sun], for that is
where it had its inception. Both its return and its going back exist in
nothing but the limitation imposed upon it by being nothing more than a
mirror.

Since the exaltation of the word of the Qur'an in former times and
the elevation of the word of the Bayan after it may be considered thus when
face to face with the Sun of Reality, what is the state of those matters
that are derived from that word, matters such as the recognition of God's
names, or those of the Prophet, the Imams of Guidance, the Gates of
Guidance, as well as secondary questions without number or end? Anyone who
has been veiled by one of these things from the reality that is the source
of his existence, and unto which it returns, should he belong to the Tree
of Affirmation and should the sign of his oneness be a token of the Sun,
well and good; but, God forbid, should it not be a token of it, he would be
unworthy of any mention.

For how often did those individuals who associated themselves with
the Qur'an issue decrees contrary to what God had revealed. This was
mentioned with respect to their realities, not with regard to what is
connected to the realities; for whatever connects itself to anything but
God will return to the reality of that thing. And since its reality is not
a token of God, it is not mentioned in His presence. But whatever is
connected to true realities will return to them. If they are signs
(naturally) situated within the mirrors of their own hearts and not
(artificially) placed there, they will return to their own seats in the
beginning and at the end. Since the sun has been shining from eternity,
those mirrors have at all times been tokens of it; God's grace has never
been interrupted under any conditions, nor shall it ever come to an end.

Whosoever says: 'God, God is my Lord, and I associate no-one with
my Lord. The Essence of the Letters of the Seven is the Gate of God [bab
Allah], and I do not believe in any gate other than him'; (whoever says
this) and believes in the one God shall manifest, such a man has attained
to this first gate of the first unity. Blessed be they who have attained to
the bounty of a mighty day, the day on which all shall bring themselves
into the presence of God, their Lord.


The Second Chapter of the First Unity

The substance of this chapter is that Muhammad and the manifestations of
his self have returned to the world. They were the first servants who
presented themselves before God on the Day of Judgement and who, after
confessing to His singleness, brought the verses of His Gate to all men.
And God made them Imams, according to His promise in the Qur'an: 'We desire
to show Our bounty unto them that have been brought low upon the earth, and
to make them Imams and to render them the inheritors'.

By that same proof whereby the prophethood of Muhammad was established in
days gone by, his return to the world has been made clear in the eyes of
God and those who possess knowledge. That proof consists of the verses of
God, verses whose like cannot be produced by all who dwell on the earth.
There can be no doubt that the honour of the servant consists in affirming
the singleness of his Lord, in recognizing Him, in confessing to His
justice, in obedience to Him, and in (obtaining) His good-pleasure. Nor is
there any doubt that these holy souls attained to the essence of all
exaltation and grandeur before all other men. For any being endowed with
spirit who reflects will see no glory in anything except in the
good-pleasure of God. There can be no doubt that they were the first lights
to bow down before God, to accept the verses that had been sent down upon
His Gate, and to spread them abroad among men. There is no exaltation
higher than this in the world of creation, than for man's heart to show the
way to God, and for him to never to be veiled from his Beloved, even for so
much as a ninth of a ninth of a tenth of a tenth of a ninth part.

For whatever any soul may perform during its lifetime, it seeks for nothing
but the good-pleasure of God, since that is the ultimate goal to which all
things aspire. Nor can there be any doubt but that God's good-pleasure is
no revealed in anything but the contentment of that individual to whom God
has given His proof. Nor can there be any doubt that these holy lights were
content with God's good-pleasure before anything else came into existence.
This is the highest exaltation, above all other exaltation, and the most
splendid elevation, above all other elevation. No doubt is there that their
return in the second revelation is mightier in God's sight that their first
appearance in days gone by.

In this day, the station of the Imam (wilaya) is established by the very
same thing that established the station of the Prophet in former days, even
though the manifestation of the Point of the Bayan is absolutely identical
with that of Muhammad, which has been brought back to life. Nevertheless,
since he has appeared in the (form of the) revelation of God Himself, all
the names beneath his shadow are God's tokens, for he is the First and the
Last, the Outward and the Inward, and the Beautiful Names belong to him.
In this dispensation (kur), God has singled out their names as the Letters
of the Living, for there were fourteen holy souls, as well as the hidden
and guarded name, which is known by the names of the Four Gates, or the
Lights of the Throne, or the Bearers of Creation, Sustenance, Death, and
Life. All of these together form the number of 'the Living' (hayy ) , who
were the nearest of the Names to God.

All others were guided by their guidance, for God started the creation of
the Bayan through them, and through them He shall cause it to return. They
were the lights that bowed themselves down from all eternity before God's
Throne, and they are still there in prostration. In every revelation, they
have been known to God by a (different) name, and in every revelation their
physical names have been altered. But the names of their real selves, which
are God's tokens, which are manifest in their hearts, and without which
they would be unable to present themselves before God in the nearness of
their realities, have ever been and continue to be (exactly the same).
God possesses Names infinite and without end, but all things have been
illumined by these names, for all things are guided by their guidance.
Within the hearts of these names, nothing but God can be seen; indeed,
within the heart of any believer whatsoever, be it man or woman, nothing
can be seen but that name through which the heart receives assistance from
God, and in that name nothing can be seen but God and God alone, except
that creation and command are His, in the past and in the future. No God is
there save He, the Living, the Self-Subsisting. Every soul who has been a
believer in Muhammad or in someone other than him, has returned in his
shadow. Each one shall have his reward for what he has done. God is witness
over all things.


The Third Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Ali has returned to the world, together with those
who believed in him and those who believed in someone else. He was the
second to believe in the Point, after the Letter Sin.


The Fourth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Fatima has returned to the life of the world, with
those who believed in her, and those who believed in someone else.


The Fifth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Hasan has returned to the life of the world, with
those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone else.


The Sixth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Husayn has returned to the life of the world, with
those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone else.


The Seventh Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that 'Ali ibn al-Husayn has returned to the life of the
world, with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone
else.


The Eighth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Muhammad ibn 'Ali has returned to the life of the
world, with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone
else.


The Ninth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Ja'far ibn Muhammad has returned to the life of the
world, with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone
else.


The Tenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Musa ibn Ja'far has returned to the life of the
world, with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone
else.


The Eleventh Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that 'Ali ibn Musa has returned to the life of the world,
with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone else.


The Twelfth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Muhammad ibn 'Ali has returned to the life of the
world, with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone
else.



The Thirteenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that 'Ali ibn Muhammad has returned to the life of the
world, with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone
else.


The Fourteenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that Hasan ibn 'Ali has returned to the life of the world,
with those who believed in him, and those who believed in someone else.


The Fifteenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that His Holiness the Proof has appeared with signs and
explanations in the revelation of the Point of the Bayan, which is
identical to the revelation of the Point of the Qur'an, although the Point
of the Bayan was mentioned in the first place and that of the Qur'an in the
second, while the revelation of His Holiness was mentioned in the fifteenth
chapter.

The hidden meaning of this is that the Point, in the station of
absolute nakedness, which is the pure revelation of God, in which it
manifests itself as God [in person], was mentioned in the first station;
and in the station of determination, which is the Primal Will, it was
mentioned in the second station; and in the station of rising up above all
souls, whch is the special privilege of the fourteenth revelation, it was
mentioned in the fifteenth station.

But the Point itself has ever been and shall ever be in the station
of primacy, and is more worthy of the mention of all names than are the
names themselves. For example, when the name of divinity exists, there
also exists that of lordship and all the (other names), despite the fact
that appearance in the name of divinity has always been and shall always be
mentioned in the station of the Point. The likenesses of all the names
appear in the elevation of their own places.

Wherefore, He is the First at the same time that He is the Last,
and He is the Hidden at the same time He is the Manifest, and He it is Who
is mentioned by every name at the same time as He is not mentioned by any
name. No god is there but He, the One Who arises, the Self-Subsisting.


The Sixteenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that the First Gate has returned to the world with every
one who believed in him, whether truly or not.


The Seventeenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that the Second Gate has returned to the world with every
one who believed in him, whether truly or not.


The Eighteenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that the Third Gate has returned to the world with every
one who believed in him, whether truly or not.


The Nineteenth Chapter of the First Unity

Concerning this, that the Fourth Gate has returned to the world with every
one who believed in him, whether truly or not.


The First Chapter of the Second Unity

In explanation of the recognition of the Proof and the Evidence

The substance of this chapter is that God, the Knowing, glorified be His
station, sends down His Proof in every dispensation according to whatever
is the highest degree of exaltation wherein the people of that dispensation
pride themselves. Thus, for example, in the time when the Qur'an was sent
down, all prided themselves in eloquent speech. God, therefore, revealed
the Qur'an in the highest degree of eloquence and made it the miracle of
His Prophet. In the Qur'an, God has not established the truth of His
Prophet or of the religion of Islam by any means other than its verses,
which are the mightiest of explanations.

The proof of their might is that all men speak using the letters of
the alphabet, whereas God, the Knowing, sent down the words of the Qur'an
in such a manner that, if all that are on earth were to gather together,
desiring to produce a single verse with which to confront the verses of the
Qur'an, they would be unable to do so and would all remain powerless.

The hidden reason for this is that God sent down the Qur'an from
the Tree of His Will, which is the Reality of Muhammad, by the Prophet's
own tongue. That inaccessible Tree does no cause a single word to descend
unless it takes the spirit from it at the moment of its descent. Thus, for,
example, should He reveal the words We have originated that creation
through a command from Our own Self. We are, indeed, powerful over all
things, the mention of 'origination' refers to whatever may be called by
the name of 'all things'; for none save God can encompass all things, in
that His Word is the protector of all things, and by it all things are
originated.

It is the same if God should reveal the words We shall cause that
creation to return, as a promise binding upon Us; We are, indeed, Mighty
over all things, for, at the time of their revelation, the spirits of the
return of all things are taken away in the manifestation of this verse, in
order that they may appear before God on the Day of Resurrection, that the
return of all things may be rendered true. None but God is capable of
achieving this, for whatever God utters from the Tree of Reality, the true
self of that thing is brought into being. Should it be non-paradisical, it
will become a letter of negation; but if it should be one of the letters of
paradise, it will become a letter of affirmation. For the Word of God is
true.

Wherefore was it revealed previously that 'hell is a reality, and
paradise is a reality'. The explanation of the creation of the spirit of
the word 'reality' has been given in its proper place.

Whoever ponders upon that will see with certainty that the true
spirits are realized in their essences through the appearance of the
Primal Point in the verses of God within the realities of the souls and the
horizons, as was mentioned by God before this in the Qur'an, in the verse
We shall show them Our signs in the horizons and in their souls, that it
may be made clear to them that He is the Truth. So long as anyone fails to
behold the inner reality of all things, which is the spirit of his own
heart, he shall not attain to an understanding of the holy words the word
of God is the truth, since it is by the (mere) mention of the word that
the reality is realized within the inner being of the thing. This refers to
God alone, exalted and glorified be He, for none but He is a creator of
anything, or a sustainer of anything, or a slayer of anything, or a
vivifier of anything.

Any word through which, in the realm of His dominion, negation is
negated or affirmation affirmed, will be resurrected in the shadow of
whatever He has sent down of His verses. Nay, those words are not in their
essences anything but what is manifested from the manifestations of God's
verses and His words. For, at the moment when God mentions a believer, his
creation takes place through the medium of that act of mentioning. And at
the moment when He sends down the non-paradisical letters, the creation of
their spirits takes place through the medium of that revelation. This is
the secret behind the fact that God's verses are a proof for all created
things, and that they are the mightiest of explanations and the greatest of
revelations affirming His power and His knowledge.

No doubt is there that, in the dispensation of the Point of the
Bayan, the intellectuals prided themselves on the science of divine unity,
the subtleties of gnosis, and the exalted matters taught by the Imams. For
this reason, God, the Knowing, placed the proof [of the Bab], like that of
the Prophet of God, within the verses themselves. There streamed forth from
his tongue words concerning the exaltation of divine unity and the
elevation of divine singleness, before which everyone possessed of the
spirit of oneness bowed down, except for those who have failed to comprehend
that concerning which he had spoken about with his Beloved. And limitless
philosophical and scientific explanations appeared from him, whose number
is known and understood by God alone.

The Sun of Reality is, in itself, the director of the affairs of
all contingent beings, from the elevation of its own understanding; and
yet, through the words and verses that God has placed within it, it draws
all things to the light of its own utterances. Does He have a peer, that He
may be comprehended? Or a rival, that He may be described through him? Or a
likeness, that he may be compared to it? Or a partner, that He may be
associated with him? Or a resemblance, that He may be likened to it?
Exalted be He above that, in the height of exaltation. For nothing may be
seen in Him but God, and we are all His worshippers.

In this dispensation, God, the Knowing, has bestowed his verses and
explanations upon the Point of the Bayan, and made him the exalted Proof
for all things. Should all that are on earth gather together, they would be
unable to produce a single verse like the verses which God has caused to
flow from his tongue. Everyone possessed of spirit who considers with the
eye of certitude will see that these verses are not within the capacity of
a human being, but are, on the contrary, attributable solely to God, the
One, the Single, He Who causes them to flow upon the tongue of anyone He
pleases. He has never caused such verses to flow, nor will He ever make
them flow, from anyone but the Point of the Divine Will, for He it is Who
has despatched every Messenger and sent down every holy book.

If this had been something that could have been manifested by the
power of a human being, someone would have brought forth a verse from the
time of the revelation of the Qur'an until the time of the revelation of
the Bayan - a period of one thousand, two hundred, and seventy years. But,
even though all men desired to extinguish God's word with the exaltation of
their own power, they were powerless and were incapable of doing so.

In this day, if anyone ponders closely, he will certainly see that,
from the beginning of the revelation of the Bayan to this moment, those who
have confessed to the evidentiary nature of the verses, and who have
carried them to all men, have been the proofs of God. Although it was not
evident that they were proofs, the exaltation of their understanding is not
hidden from anyone. For the lowliest student of the late Sayyid trod
underfoot the most exalted of the scholars and philosophers upon the face
of the earth. There can be no doubt in the mind of anyone concerning the
elevation of the piety of those men who have recognized the evidentiary
nature of the verses, whether they belonged to this school or not.

This is mentioned only in view of the weakness of men. Otherwise,
the testimony borne by God can never be compared with that of all that are
on earth. And there can be no doubt but that the testimony of God is only
manifested through the testimony of that individual whom He makes His
Proof. The testimony of the verses themselves is sufficient proof of the
inadequacy of all that are on earth, for this is a proof that will remain
constant on the part of God until the Day of Resurrection.

Should anyone consider the revelation of this Tree, he will without
doubt testify to the exaltation of the cause of God, inasmuch as, for
someone of twenty-four years of age and devoid of those branches of
learning in which others are well-versed, to receive verses in this manner,
with neither thought nor hesitation, and to write one thousand verses of
devotions in the space of five hours, without lifting his pen from the
page, and to reveal Quranic commentaries and scientific treatises in the
highest degrees of gnosis and divine unity, when the divines and
philosophers have confessed their inability to comprehend these matters, is
unquestionably entirely the work of God. To what a degree do scholars who,
from the beginning to the end of their lives, have exercised independent
reasoning, take care over the writing of a single line of Arabic; yet,
when all is said and done, their words are not fit to be mentioned.

All of this is for the sake of providing evidence to men.
Otherwise, God's cause is too glorious and too exalted to be recognized
through anything but itself. Indeed, all other things are themselves
recognized through it. I swear by the essence of God, Who was and is alone
in His singleness, that His words are brighter than the light of the sun at
mid-day, and the words of those who have been guided by the exaltation of
His guidance, should they attain to the highest rank of knowledge and
understanding, are like the stars in the night.

Nay, I ask forgiveness of God for such a suggestion. How can the
ocean of eternity be grasped through the ocean of temporal existence, and
how can the mention of the First be known through the mention of
limitations? Praised be God and exalted be He above all the references that
are made to Him within the kingdom of the earth and the heavens.
All such references have been made with regard for the limited
degrees of created things. Otherwise, this is what will be advanced as a
proof on the Day of Resurrection (to come), just as the same proof was
advanced in this Resurrection. When God asked by the tongue of His Tongue,
'Whose Book is the Qur'an?', all those who believed in it said. 'it is the
Book of God'. They were then asked, 'can you see any difference between the
Qur'an and the Bayan?', and those possessed of hearts replied, 'No, by God!
Both are from God. None but those possessed of clear vision shall take
heed.'

God, the Knowing, then revealed these words: 'The first (of these
two books) was My word sent down by the tongue of Muhammad, the Messenger
of God, and the second is My word sent down by the tongue of the Essence of
the Seven Letters, the Gate of God. Whosoever has believed in the first has
no choice but to believe in the second, if he wishes to remain constant in
faith. He must either believe in these verses or render his own reality and
his own deeds valueless, as on the day when nothing was mentioned before
God.' He then revealed the following: 'O My creatures, you strive to the
full extent of your ability from the beginning to the end of your lives in
order to attain to My good-pleasure. If you perform any secondary act, it
is because I Myself revealed it in My Book. And if you have believed in the
Imams of Guidance, or have sought nearness to Me by visiting their graves,
it is because their names have been sent down in cipher in the Qur'an.

'If you testify to the prophethood of Muhammad, the Messenger of
God, it is because he was My Messenger. And if you circumambulate the
Ka'ba, it is because I called it My House. And if you hold the Qur'an in
esteem, it is because it is My Word. Whatever action a man performs, even
though he be of the community of Adam (the first Prophet), it is
necessarily performed because of his relationship to Me, as he has
understood within himself. Yet now he has become veiled, and has imagined
things that are contrary to reality, and has failed to recognize My
subsequent manifestations. For there is nothing whatever whose decree does
not return to this human temple, which has been created at My command. And
that temple returns by decrees until it reaches My Prophet. And My Prophet
is only confirmed by a Book sent down on Him and a Proof granted unto him.

'Today, which is the Day of My revelation, in which I have appeared
in person - and this mention of "in person" is like the mention of the word
"Ka'ba", which I called "My House"; otherwise, My Essence has neither
beginning nor end, manifestation nor concealment - yes, today, whatever
returns to this personage who recites My verses on My behalf, shall return
to Me. And whatever fails to return to him, shall not return to Me. This is
My appearance in My own person and My concealment in My own Essence. For
anything else is impossible in the realm of contingent being, nor can
anything more exalted than this be expressed in words.

'How veiled you are, O creatures, that all of you imagine you enjoy
My good-pleasure, through your relationship to me in your own places. Yet
the Sign that is My token and that recites by My permission the verses of
My power, whose treasuries are his true nature, you have unjustly placed
upon a mountain, none of whose inhabitants is fit to be spoken of. With
him - that is to say, with Me - there is only one other person , who is one
of the Letters of the Living of My Book, and in front of him - that is to
say, in front of Me - there burns in the night but a single lamp. Yet in
the seats that by degrees return to him, innumerable lamps are shining,
while all that are on earth, who were created for his sake, enjoy his
benefits, although they are veiled from him to the extent of a single lamp.

'Thus do I bear witness in this day against My creatures, for the
testimony of any other than Myself counts for nothing in My sight. There is
no higher paradise for My creatures than that they should appear before Me
and believe in My verses. Nor is any hellfire fiercer than the veiling of
these creatures from the manifestation of My self or their failure to
believe in My verses. If you should ask how he speaks on My behalf - do you
not behold My verses? Are you no ashamed to repeat what you said in former
days concerning My Book (the Qur'an)? And yet you have seen that My Book
was confirmed and that today you are all believers in Me because of it. You
shall soon see that your glory would reside in your belief in these verses,
but today, when the demonstration of faith would benefit your souls, you
have remained veiled by what neither benefits nor harms.

'No harm has befallen, nor can any befall the manifestation of My
self. Any harm that has befallen and that shall befall (him) shall (in
reality) return to your own souls. Have pity on yourselves, and soar into
that heaven wherein you imagine My good-pleasure resides. While My
good-pleasure has been realized through that proof whereby the religion of
all men is confirmed, you have remained veiled by them that associate
themselves with the Qur'an. I swear by My own holy Essence that there is no
higher paradise for these creatures than my revelation and My verses, no is
there any hellfire fiercer than being veiled from Me and My verses.

'If you should say, "our failure has not been demonstrated
conclusively to us," why don't you travel the earth from East to West (and
see the evidence)? And yet these words of Mine are meaningless, for in this
day the truth of all that is on earth is referred back to the decree of
Islam. So, if the eloquent among (the people of) this decree have failed,
it proves that all other men must have failed as well.

'If they should say, "We have not failed", why do they not produce
a single verse resembling Our verses, out of innate capacity, and not
through study or by stealing from one another? Although they ought to
reveal whatever lies within them, alongside each and every truth, to the
same degree demonstrated by the magicians in Moses's day, yet, God be
praised, from the beginning of the revelation till now, not even that much
has been manifested by the learned men of this religion. They themselves
claim that they are soaring in the heights of God's good-pleasure, whereas
they are, in fact, veiled from that which confirms God through the verses
of His power. This alone is sufficient to disgrace the divines of Islam,
that, with respect to Islam, they show forth the learning of that faith,
yet remain veiled from him whose word is its confirmation.

'Had they been content with their own condition of being wrapped in
veils; had they done injustice to no other souls; and had they not decreed
things that had not been sent down in the Qur'an - they would have cast
nobody but themselves into hell. But both they and those that have
considered them the learned ones of Islam, indeed all men, have been and
still are veiled from God's revelation. Yet the punishment of these others
shall fall upon them too. Had they pondered upon the verses of God, they
would have recognized their own powerlessness, and, in that case, neither
the king of Islam nor they that dwelt beneath his shadow would have been
content to be veiled from the truth, for the glory of all men resides in
following the truth. Had the divines not caused them to go astray, matters
would not have reached this point, for there can be no doubt that, in the
end, God shall manifest the truth unto all men through His proof.

'Thus, in this day, should someone who associates himself with
Islam, whether he be a state official of a divine, wish to confirm the
evidentiary nature of the verses, he may do so in the twinkling of an eye.
For, if he possesses the power to do so, he is capable of summoning all
the divines together (in one place) and saying to them: "I remained veiled
from him who is the Possessor of Verses, on account of your decrees. Now
let the matter be put to the test: either you should produce a book
yourselves, to compare with his verses. Or, if you are incapable of doing
so, you should be content with the following verse, written in this
connection: Praise be to Thee, O my God! You are the King of Kings. You
grant dominion to anyone you wish, and you take it away from anyone you
wish. You glorify anyone you wish, and you abase anyone you wish. You make
victorious anyone you wish, and you bring defeat on anyone you wish. You
bestow wealth on anyone you wish, and you cast into poverty anyone you
wish. You make manifest anyone you wish to anyone you wish. In your grasp
is the kingdom of all things. You create whatever you wish by your command.
You are, indeed, All-Knowing, Mighty, and Powerful.

'Speak as he has spoken, by your innate nature. And write as he has
written, without hesitation and without lifting your pen from the page.
But, if you cannot do so, that proves that what you have done was done
unjustly, and that the Possessor of these verses is a truth from God. There
is no doubt that God has sent these verses down on him, just as he sent
them down (previously) on His Prophet. Verses like these have now been
spread about among men to the number of one hundred thousand, apart from
his epistles and prayers, or his scientific and philosophical treatises.
Within the space of five hours, one thousand verses are revealed by him, or
else he dictates the verses of God as fast as the scribe beside him can
write them down. You may use this as a basis on which to calculate just how
many of his writings would have been distributed by now, had he been given
the liberty to do so.

'If you should say that these verses are not, in themselves, any
sort of proof, take a look at the Qur'an. Were it the case that God
demanded anything but the verses (of that book) as a means of proving the
prophethood of His Messenger, then you might well hesitate when it comes
to these verses. But, on the contrary, God revealed the following words:

Only those who have disbelieved in Him dispute God's verses. Do not
let their sudden fortune in the land catch you out. The people of Noah and
then the Confederates cried 'lies!' before them; and every people plotted
against its prophet in order to take violent hold of him, and they disputed
(with him) by means of falsehood, hoping that they might refute the truth.
So, I laid hold of them, and how great was My punishment! Thus was the
truth of the Word of your Lord brought home to those who did not believe.
They are now residing in hell.

'And He has also revealed the following verse, regarding the
self-sufficiency of the Book: Is it not enough for them that We have sent
the Book down upon you, that it may be recited to them? It contains a
mercy, as well as a warning for people who believe. Since God has
testified that the self-sufficiency of the Book consists in the verses in
and of themselves, how can anyone say that the evidentiary nature of the
Book is not an adequate proof of its truth?

'If someone should repeat what the people of former days said about
the verses, there are two possibilities. It may be that he is not setting
out to establish the truth at all; in that case, no proof will have any
effect on him whatsoever, just as God has revealed: If they saw every sign
they would not believe in one of them or, again, Those against whom the
Word of your Lord has come to pass will never believe, not even if every
sign reached them, until they catch sight of the severe punishment (that
awaits them).

'If, on the other hand, he merely wants to be cautious in matters
of religion - something which is quite understandable - than, in what
statement will they believe, if not in God and His verses? Either such a
person should come in person and ask whatever he wants about any subject,
to be answered in the form of verses, so that he may hear for himself how
the Source does not hesitate and does not compose artificially and does not
consciously the order of the words he writes. Or he should send someone
else, in order to sit with him [i.e. the Bab] for an hour and write down
whatever he recites of God's verses, after which he may ponder on them
until it is clear to him that they have not been put together by conscious
thought or deliberate ordering of words, one after the other. If this had
taken place from the beginning of the Islamic faith until the present day,
it would have occurred with respect to the Qur'an, and from the beginning
of this revelation until today someone would have challenged me in
precisely this way.

'Should someone criticize my use of vocalization or textual
readings or Arabic grammar, I would reject their criticism. For such
(grammatical) rules are based on the verses, not vice versa. It cannot be
doubted that he has rejected for himself all such rules and the learning
that is based on them. Indeed, in the eyes of thinking people, no proof is
greater than being ignorant of such rules, when ignorance is combined with
the ability to reveal such words and verses as these. This is because the
fruit of these sciences is (real) understanding of God's Book, although it
is quite unnecessary for the Tree on which the Book of God in person has
alighted to have the slightest knowledge of them.

'On the contrary, all the grammatical rules and the systems of
vocalization are established by what God has revealed. How many individuals
there are who have acquired every conceivable form of learning, even though
their faith (in God) is established through their faith in His verses,
since the fruit of learning is to know the laws of God and nothing else,
provided such knowledge is combined with conformity to His good-pleasure.
For, if the sciences (of Arabic grammar and syntax) were capable of bearing
fruit purely by themselves, there would be more experts in that field among
the Arabs than among the (Persian-speaking) Iranians, wherever the fact is
that the former lack any real distinction in this area. Indeed, distinction
consists in obtaining God's good-pleasure, in knowing the nature of divine
unity, and in dwelling beneath the shadow of His obedience and
good-pleasure.

'There is no doubt that whatever they accomplish between Him and
themselves, they have no aim other than to make themselves pleasing to Him.
And yet few are aware of His good-pleasure, with the exception of those who
are informed of the good-pleasure of him who is His Proof [i.e. the Bab].
In this day, God's good-pleasure is confined to that of His Proof and of
them who dwell in his shadow. Although other men imagine they are guided,
yet whatever God bears witness to endures, whereas whatever is done by
those who do not follow the divine command will become as nothing.

'In the same way that mention is still made in this day of those
people who called the Qur'an a lie in the early days of Islam, including
Christian monks and the eloquent among the Arabs, in this day the mention
of those who are shut out as though by a veil will also endure. Today,
no-one can perform a more profitable action for himself than to look justly
on the verses of the Bayan, so he may see the truth of God with the eye of
certainty and may not remain veiled from the presence of the manifestation,
whose presence is equivalent to the presence of God, and whose
good-pleasure is God's good-pleasure. For all men have been created to this
end, even as God has revealed: God it is Who has raised up the heavens
without visible pillars, then seated Himself upon the Throne, and .......
the sun and the moon, that each of them may run to an appointed decree. He
controls the affair and makes clear the verses, that you may be sure of
meeting your Lord (Qur'an ). No doubt is there that any mirror that
should be placed in front of the sun will light up (with its reflection);
otherwise the sun itself rises and sets again.

'The glory of all beings lies in their attainment to the fruit of
their own existence - and that is for them to reach God's presence and to
have faith in His verses. Otherwise, anything is worthless in itself. It is
this very tree that planted the tree of the Qur'an in the hearts of mankind
for the sake of this day; today all men pride themselves in it and glory in
their relationship to it - yet they are doing what they are doing. This is
the meaning of the words: No power nor strength is there save in God
(Qur'an ) in the holy religion; otherwise, if men were to divest
themselves of this relationship - a relationship which actually has no
reality - they would not have as much as the strength of a housefly. This
is sufficient disgrace for those who are shut out as though by a veil, who
commit what they commit by asserting this (spurious) relationship to Him,
and who, instead of attaining to the fruit of their existence - which in
this day means coming to his assistance [nusrat-i amr ] - have failed to
help him at all.

'Indeed, they are not content with their failure to render him aid,
for had they been content with that, this Tree would never have been placed
upon this mountain. God is sufficient for all His servants. He shall issue
a decisive decree, and His decree is that self-same decree that has been
made manifest at this moment in these words, that shall distinguish until
the Day of Resurrection between them that have turned towards Him and them
that have failed to do so. Whatsoever things God decrees shall come to
pass. He is the Best of Helpers and the Best of Protectors, the Best of
Guardians and the Best of Judges.'


The Second Chapter of the Second Unity

Concerning this, that none shall comprehend fully what God has sent down in
the Bayan, except those whom He wishes

The substance of this chapter is that no-one shall grasp what God has
revealed in the Bayan except him whom He shall manifest or him to whom He
has given knowledge. This is just like the Tree from which the Bayan
sprang forth [i.e. the Qur'an], for, were all the oceans of the heavens and
the earth to become ink and were all things pens and all souls enumerators,
even then they would be unable to provide an adequate interpretation of a
single word from among all the words of the Bayan, for God has created
neither a beginning nor an ending for any of His words.

None is permitted to interpret what God has sent down in the Bayan,
other than to relate all the letters of paradise to him whom God shall
manifest or to his Letters of the Living, and all the letters of hellfire
to the gates of his inferno. For all the letters of paradise shall be
resurrected beneath his shadow while all the letters of hell shall be
raised up again in the shadow of rejection. What has gone before resembles
what is yet to come: there is no alteration in the Cause of God, just as
what preceded what went before resembles what shall follow that which is
yet to come.

The whole Qur'an was one hundred and fourteen suras, and every six
suras were sent down according to the exaltation of the station of each
letter of the letter 'In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate'
[Bism Allah al-Rahman al-Rahim ]. Thus, the first six suras were from the
Point and the last six from the mim [?], and all the letters of paradise
return unto these nineteen manifestations, while the letters of hell return
to the nineteen manifestations of the gates of hell, just as all the gates
of hell return to their first gate, in the same manner that all the gates
of paradise return to their first gate - for all of them are joined
together in the phrase 'No god is there but God' [la ilaha illa 'llah]:
whatever belongs to the letters of hell is connected to the (words of)
rejection [i.e. la ilaha], and whatever belongs to the letters of
paradise is connected to the (words of) affirmation [i.e. illa 'llah]. All
the letters of hell in the Qur'an were extinguished in the shadow of the
first gate of hell, and all the letters of paradise in the Qur'an endured
in the shadow of the word of affirmation. Thus does God cause to perish
whatever He wills and thus does He cause to endure whatever He wishes. He,
indeed, is Powerful, Mighty, and Strong.

It is not permissible to interpret the Bayan other than in
accordance with the interpretation given by its Tree [i.e. the Bab]. All
its goodly words may be fittingly applied to the lights of the hearts of
them that believe in it, while all its letters of hell may be construed as
refrring to the realities of those who do not believe in it.

The Bayan has ever been and ever will be like the soul of a man who
is alive; and all its letters of light and fire provide explanations of
(what is in) the horizons and the souls of men. Thus, in this day, whoever
wishes to make distinction [tamyiz dahad] is able to do so, since this is
the day of the appearance of God; but once the Tree has been uprooted [i.e.
after the Bab's death] no-one shall be able to distinguish (matters) in
accordance with their reality, other than in the outward sense. He in whom
the limits of God are no numbered [?] belongs to the letters of paradise,
and he in whom they are numbered belongs to the letters of hell, that God
may cause all created things to rejoice in that through the appearance of
His own Self on the Day of Resurrection. Wherefore, the Point of the Bayan
shall not decree at its end according to what was decreed at its beginning.
Whoso believes in it is one of the letters of paradise. And whoso does no
believe in it is one of the letters of hell. God shall distinguish in
truth between them both. He, indeed, is the best of distinguishers.

Matters have reached the point where there shall be no further
mention of the letters of hell, except in the pages of the Book. The Tree
of Negation imagines itself to be one of the Letters of Paradise and
curses itself, all the time unaware that it is doing so. (Things shall
continue like this) until the Sun of Truth rises up; at that moment, his
lack of true faith shall be revealed, for whoever lives during that
resurrection shall see things with the eye of certitude. This is similar to
the way in which all men in this day say 'we are believers in God and in
the verses of the Qur'an', whereas the Tree of Truth who actually sent the
Qur'an down, dwells on this mountain with only a single companion.

Thus, at the time of the reappearance of the Sun of Truth, its
realities have been uncovered and the veils that concealed it have been
raised. Men who have had no thought other than to obtain the good-pleasure
of God have issued decrees for actions that the pen is ashamed to mention,
all directed against the Treasury of the divine good-pleasure, through whom
alone God's good-pleasure is shown to men. Wherefore, O men of insight,
take heed and fear God's command.


The Third Chapter of the Second Unity

In explanation of what is in the Bayan, there being within it the decree of
all things.

The substance of this chapter is that God provides two proofs for all men:
the divine verses and the individual to whom those verses are revealed. The
first proof endures and remains visible until the Day of resurrection,
whereas the second is only manifest as long as the period of revelation
lasts; during the period of concealment he is a proof unto all things while
remaining known to no-one.

From the time of the setting of the sun, he has witnesses who guide
men unto the abiding proof, which is the word of God [Bayan], so that they
may act as proofs through his utterance until the day of his reappearance.
But woe to them if, when he appears to them again, they should be veiled
from the one for whom they acted as proofs. Even so, in this day, the
divines have regarded themselves as arbitrators (hakam) on behalf of the
Imam, according to the words of one of the imams: consider whosoever
relates our traditions ; and they attribute to themselves unworthy names.
Yet, if they were sincere in what they say, they would not have been veiled
from the one through whose word both the Imamate and the rank of Prophet
have been confirmed. But, since they saw that the appearance of the truth
conflicted with their position - according to the relationship which they
themselves have decreed and which they have assigned to themselves - they
went so far as to issue a decree against God, even though God has not
revealed in the Qur'an anything more terrible than the one who was
mentioned by the verses of God and yet turned aside from them.

No doubt is there that the verses of God are verses that shine
forth from this Tree, for the Eternal Essence has ever existed in His state
of singleness, whereas the verses are a matter for creativity, which is the
work of the Primal Will, in whom none can be seen save God alone.
Although, in his day men do not look upon the verses of God, yet before
long these same verses shall be recited in the most exalted manner and
Bayans worth one thousand mithqals of gold shall be written; men shall
pride themselves thereon and regard themselves as related to God.

In the same way, the Qur'an was revealed over a period of
twenty-three years, yet there was no-one to write down the original text,
until the Prince of the Believers wrote it on the shoulder blades of sheep
and other available tablets (alwah-i mumkina), as is mentioned in the
Tradition of the Cloak. And today one may see how innumerable Qu'rans are
written, in values ranging from one thousand thousand (alf alf) to one
thousand dinars, just as printed copies at this price are in the possession
of most people. This is the limit of created beings (hadd-i khalq) in the
eyes of God.

No doubt is there that God has made distinctions between all things
in the most high degree, according to the abiding proof. Whosoever should
say that there is something whose decree has not been revealed in the Bayan
according to its proper state and station, such a man has, without any
shadow of a doubt, failed to believe in it. For all things fall into one
or two categories : they are either mentioned in the category of rejection
or in that of affirmation. Whatever God does not like returns to the former
and whatever He likes returns to the latter. Every false name is mentioned
in the first, and every true name in the second. This is the pivot round
which all things form in the Bayan. Whoever testifies unto that, let him
also bear witness that we have not neglected anything therein. God,
indeed, encompasses all things.

There is no condition in which God has not decreed for the silent
book a speaking book. The latter would not exist but for the former, nor
would the former exist but for the latter. He that does not transgress
what is in the silent book, he is the speaking book. And the speaking book
is he whom God shall manifest, unto whom all things return. If any man
should refrain from passing beyond the limits set down in the Bayan, he is
a servant who has obeyed him and who is a witness on his behalf before his
appearance. But when he appears, faith shall be removed from all who
possess it, save whomsoever believes in him. And if faith be cut off, how
will testimony remain for men that are witnesses? For bearing witness is
itself but an offshoot of faith. Wherefore, fear God, O witnesses, lest
you should pass judgement against your Lord, even as they that are
witnesses on behalf of the Qur'an passed judgement against me. Whoever
passes judgement against me has but passed judgement against God his Lord.
For such as here, God has but a ninth of a ninth of a tenth of a tenth of a
goodly mention. Such are the transgressors.


The Fourth Chapter of the Second Unity

In explanation of the mention of the Letters of Paradise and the Letters of
Hell.

The substance of this chapter is that God has not sent down any
letter other than with its own spirit, which is connected to it. It is for
this reason that the believer rejoices in the mention of paradise and the
good-pleasure of God, but is depressed by the mention of hell and God's
displeasure. And this is to such a degree that you might say the first
(mention) is a cause of pleasure and the second a cause of pain.

All the words that God has sent down in the Bayan fall into two
categories : They either belong to the words of paradise or to those of
hell. The spirits of the former are in paradise, while those of the latter
are in the fire. All the letters of hell return to the phrase 'there is no
God', whereas all the letters of paradise return to the words 'save Him'.
In the same way, all the letters of hell originated from the first phrase,
whereas all the letters of paradise had their origin in the second. From
eternity, the former have been raised up in the highest seats of paradise,
while the latter have disappeared beneath the dust.

Similarly, if in this day someone should look upon the origin of
the Tree of the Qur'an, he shall behold with certainty how the five letters
of negation disappeared beneath the dust - these being the first, second,
third, fourth and fifth. And how the five letters that lead unto
affirmation were raised up in the highest place in paradise, these being
Muhammad, 'Ali, Fatima, Hasan, and Husayn.

When the five words of fire are broken down into their separate
letters, they are nineteen, as God has revealed: 'Over it are nineteen'
(Qur'an XXXX). In the same way, when the letters of the five names are
split up, they make up the number of unity (i.e. 19). Just as the letters
of hell return to this word, so do all the letters of paradise return to
the word of affirmation.

God, the Knowing, has created negation and decreed the fire for it,
and He has created affirmation and decreed paradise for it. For negation
does not give any indication of Him, whereas affirmation does. This refers
to the bring into being of negation and affirmation within the natural
realm (takwin); their existence in the realm of religion (tadwin) is on the
same basis.

Whatever branched out from the word of negation has on the Day of
Resurrection, returned unto it. All the letters of hell, together with the
spirits attached to them, have been raised up in the shadow of that same
word. In like manner, all that has branched out from the word of
affirmation has, on the Day of Resurrection, returned into it, and all the
letters of paradise and the spirits attached to them have been raised up in
its shadow. Whatever individual has entered into negation, shall remain in
the divine fire until the day of him whom God shall manifest. But whoever
has dwelt in the shadow of affirmation shall remain in the divine paradise
until the day of him whom God shall manifest.

The exaltation of the servant consists in paying heed to what
branches forth from these two words, how the one is endlessly made as
nothing, and how the other is endlessly raised up. The proof of God is the
same for both, for His verses are made clear to both. The manifestations
of negation having failed to accept them, they have been rejected, and the
manifestations of affirmation having accepted them, they have been brought
to dwell in the shadow of affirmation. No fire is fiercer than a
manifestation of the word of negation, nor is any paradise greater than a
manifestation of affirmation, for the letters of hell circle about the
former, while the letters of paradise turn around the latter until all
shall return to him whom God shall manifest on the day of his appearance.
Those that accept him shall belong to paradise, and if not, to hell.
Blessed be he that clings to the cord of God and relies upon his Lord, that
he may not enter into hell, but may come into paradise by his Lord's
permission. That, indeed, is the mighty grace.

It is for this reason that, when a servant recites the letter of
paradise he is made content, for their spirits attach themselves unto him.
This is the highest paradise of them that render God's praise, them that
sanctify Him, them that proclaim His unity, them that magnify Him, and them
that extol His greatness. But if a servant should recite the letters of
hell, he wishes for God's justice to descend upon them, for their spirits
may attach themselves to him. He must take refuge at such times in God,
glorified be His name, that he may be protected from their spirits. For
everyone whom God in the Qur'an has promised paradise on the Day of
Resurrection, He has caused to return to the tree of His love, which is the
highest of the ranks of paradise, where they may attain unto His
good-pleasure and take delight in conferring to His singleness. Whereas
everyone whom God has promised hell, He has caused to return to the word of
negation, wherein they have tasted their punishment, for there is no
torment greater than to be shut out as by a veil from God and from faith in
Him. But there is no paradise greater than belief in God and His verses.

Should anyone possessed of insight behold, he will see how the
people of paradise have preceded the rest into heaven, even though their
food was no more than the leaf of a tree; whereas the people of hell have
entered therein by their own consent, bringing with them those things
(shu'un) in which they benefited from the word of negation, in which they
pride themselves, and by which they are tormented in the fire, although
they are unaware of that. Even as God has revealed: 'they eat a fire
within their own interiors'. (Qur'an XXXX) In this way, the letters of
hell return to their own spirits, while the letters of paradise return to
theirs.

There is no-one but that, should he mention the letter of paradise,
the spirits of the angels connected to them shall at that moment, gaze upon
him and bless him on behalf of God. But when someone mentions the letters
of hell, should he do so out of love for them, the spirits of the satans of
hell shall gaze upon him. If he does not seek refuge with God, they shall
bring upon him whatever they are capable of, even if it be only a
perturbation of the heart. But if he should seek refuge with God, and
invoke his anger against them, they shall be unable to find any faith into
him, nor shall they be able to have his faith even to the extent of nine
ninths of ten tenths of a grain of mustard-seed.

Yet, it is as if I can see that the letters of negation shall, at
the time of the appearance of him whom God shall manifest, seek refuge in
negation, even though they are themselves its very source. At that time,
none shall provide them with refuge from their own hell save he whom God
shall manifest. For, at the moment when a servant says 'I take refuge with
God', if he does not enter within the religion of the Bayan, he shall not
be granted refuge from hell. Nay, he shall not pronounce those words
except through his entry into the faith, even as those individuals who have
not entered into faith in the Qur'an do not say it. For taking refuge with
God means taking refuge with His proof. Whoever believed in Muhammad
before this was granted refuge from the fire of God. Although the letters
of hell themselves say these very words, it is of no benefit to them, for
they do not seek refuge with the Proof, an account of what God has revealed
in the Quran : 'He who does not believe in God' (48:13) and joined to the
word that follows it . And yet he reads the words themselves while failing
to take heed of them. In the same way, at the beginning of Islam, this
phrase was interpreted as meaning the second, yet while he read the entire
Qur'an, the manifestation of the sign of divinity was 'Ali, the Prince of
the Believers. If he had taken refuge in him, he would have been saved
from the words that follow it.

Thus it is that, until the day of him whom God shall manifest, all
will seek refuge with God and with the Point of the Bayan, but when that
day comes it shall not be of any benefit to them, for on that day taking
refuge with God will mean taking refuge with him (whom he shall manifest),
and taking refuge with the Point of the Bayan will be the same. Even as,
from the beginning of the appearance of this tree, all have uttered the
words 'I seek refuge with God', and yet they are dwelling in the midst of
hell, save those whom God has willed, who have recognised the manifestation
of His name and, having taken refuge with him, have been preserved from the
absolute fire.

Otherwise, everyone says these word unnumbered times every day, and
yet here can be no salvation for him, for God has associated the taking of
refuge with him with seeking refuge in His Messenger, and linked his latter
with seeking refuge [p. 27] in his Successors , and linked this again with
seeking refuge in the Gates of his Successors . The first of these is of
absolutely no benefit without the last, nor is the outward of any use
without the inward. For taking refuge in the Messenger is identical to
taking refuge in God, and seeking refuge with the Imam is identical to
seeking refuge with the Messenger, and taking refuge in the Gates is
identical to taking refuge in the Imams.

In this day, whoever enters into the Bayan shall be granted refuge
from hell, just as the letters of the Gospel were not granted refuge from
it unless they entered the letters of the Qur'an. The letters of paradise
from among the letters of the Bayan shall remain in heaven until the day of
him whom God shall manifest, while its letters of hell shall be in their
own stations. When his day comes, whoever enters into his book shall be
saved from the fire, or else his continuing in the Bayan shall prove of no
benefit to him whatsoever, just as remaining in the Gospel was of no
benefit to the letters thereof after the revelation of the Qur'an; and the
same was true of the letters of the Qur'an after the revelation of the
Bayan. And the letters of paradise shall progress in the highest exaltation
unto whatsoever God desires. And the letters of hell shall be rejected to
the limit of their non-existence. Blessed be he that gives his heart
nourishment from the letters of paradise. And should the letter of hell be
mentioned, let him take refuge with God, his Lord, who shall render him
sinless. They that make mention must, of necessity, refer to them, but the
mention of them shall not harm them. Even so did they that believed in the
Qur'an mention them that had been given the earth before them. Thus does
God make clear the signs that you may be confident in the verses of God.


The Fifth Gate of the Second Unity

Concerning this, that every good name sent down by God in the Bayan refers
to him whom God shall manifest, in the primary reality, and every evil name
sent down by God in the Bayan refers to him who shall in that day be the
Letter of Negation confronting him, in the primary reality.

The substance of this chapter is that every goodly name that has
been sent down in the Bayan refers to him whom God shall manifest, in the
primary reality. Then, in the secondary reality, it refers to the first to
believe in him, and so on until the furthest limits of existence. Thus,
where the earth has been mentioned, the meaning is the earth of his person,
and so on down until it reaches the earth of dust which is related to him
and wherever he dwells, which constitutes the highest chamber of paradise
in the Book of God. In the same manner is this true of every evil name,
that has been sent down in it (the Bayan). In the primary reality, it
refers to the tree that has been rejected before him. And if there should
be a mention of 'earth' [p.28] in a context relating to hell, its meaning
is the earth of his person, and so on down until it reaches the earth of
dust which is his abode, which is the uttermost limit of hell, in the earth
of hell, even though there should rest upon it a throne of glory.

In the same way, whatever goodly mention was sent down by God in
the Qu'ran, in its primary reality it is a reference to the Messenger of
God, whereas every inauspicious mention is a reference to the first
Negation, which stood face to face with the first Affirmation. If there
was any mention of the earth of paradise, it was a reference to his person,
and so on down to the earth of dust which was the abode of his physical
body. All of these things refer back to the Qa'im of the Family of
Muhammad, on whom be peace, for whatever goodly mention there may be in the
Qur'an is a reference to him in the primary reality, even as in the Bayan
such mention is interpreted as him whom God shall manifest. And whatever
ill mention was revealed in the Qu'ran, even though it was just a reference
to the earth, was a reference to the earth of the person of him who was the
first to fail to recognise him. In the same manner that this was realised
in the Qu'ran, so it has been confirmed before God in the Bayan. Whatever
goodly name resides in the knowledge of God is a reference in the primary
reality to the Point of the Will, and its opposite refers to him who did
not recognise him.

In this manner, whatever mention has been made of the earth within
the realm of existence returns in this day to the Point of the Bayan, so
that it may descend from the earth of the heart to the earth of the spirit,
and from the earth of the spirit to the earth of the soul (nafs), and from
the earth of the soul to the earth of the body (jasad), and from the earth
of the body unto all things, the nearer relating to the nearer, until it
finally reaches that earth situated above the mountain, which is but three
feet by four: this is, at this moment the essence of all the physical
earths. If the place whereupon he sits should be altered, then the
situation would likewise alter (in this respect), until he should dwell
where there is no alteration.

It is likewise in the shadow of the (letters of) paradise, letter
for letter, point for point. This is the most exalted earth of paradise
(al-ridwan), and that is the lowest earth of hell; I seek refuge with God
from what He does not love, and I beg of Him all that He loves - He,
indeed, is the Gracious, the Bountiful.

The goodly names of the Qur'an from the Prophet onwards gradually
shone forth in their degrees in each one of his successors. And it was the
same with the names of hell, until the highest exaltation of the earth of
paradise attained to the place of the martyrdom of the Prince of Martyrs
(Husayn), while the lowest earth of hell reached the place of the dominion
of him that opposed him (Yazid). Thus was it decreed by God. And thus is
His decree put into operation in the manifestation of each one of the
proofs of God.

In this day, all the goodly names are, in the primary reality,
contained in the person of the Point, even the mention of the earth, which
was used as an analogy. And in the second reality, they are contained in
the letter Sin, and so on to the furthest limit of existence. Wherefore,
fear God, O you people, all of you together.


The Sixth Gate of the Second Unity

Concerning this, that the Bayan is the balance on the part of God until the
day of him whom He shall manifest. Whoever follows him is light, and
whosoever turns away from him is fire.

The substance of this chapter is that the Bayan is the balance of
God until the Day of Resurrection, which is the day of him whom God shall
manifest. Whoso acts in accordance with whatsoever is therein is in
paradise and he shall be resurrected beneath the shadow of Affirmation and
the letters of Paradise. But whoso turns aside, be it even to the extent
of a grain of barley is in hell and shall be resurrected beneath the shadow
of Negation.

This same concept was likewise made manifest in the Qur'an, for in
numerous places God has revealed that whoso decrees other than what God has
sent down is an infidel (kafir). Whatever returns to that word belongs to
its degrees. The decree of someone who transgresses the decree of God is
thus. How, then, shall he be should he transgress against the very person
of God's own appearance? For God has revealed : 'I have not created jinn
and men but that they should worship Me.'

No doubt is there that obedience is unacceptable except through
obedience to the Proof of God. Had that not been so, then the deeds of
them that showed enmity towards the People of the House would have been
mentioned before God, whereas in this day, all decree that none should
worship them, nor have their deeds borne any fruit. In this way, the
non-Shi'is today act in accordance with the decrees of the Qur'an, whereas,
since they have turned aside from the Imamate (vilayat), these deeds are
worthless in the sight of God.

But today there are few who act in accordance with the balance of
the Qur'an, indeed one can only see men whom God has willed (so to act).
And if there should be such a person, if he fails to enter within the
balance of the Bayan, then his piety shall not be of the least benefit to
him, even as the piety of the monks of the Gospel (alif) did not benefit
them when they clung to it as their balance on the appearance of the
Messenger of God. Had they acted according to the balance of the Qu'ran,
such decrees would not have been issued concerning the tree of truth. 'The
heavens might almost cleave apart [at that minhu omitted], and the earth
split asunder, and the mountains collapse in tiny pieces' (19:90). Their
hearts are harder than these mountains, for they are not at all affected.

There is no paradise more exalted in the eyes of God than to be in
His good-pleasure [p.30]. Praised be He that, in this day, this bounty is
restricted to the people of the Bayan. Hereafter, whoso does not
transgress its limits shall remain in this bounty until the day of him whom
God shall manifest. But if - I seek refuge with God - he should turn
aside, he shall have harmed only his own self. God is independent of all
the worlds. At the beginning of his revelation, the whole of the Bayan is
(simply) obedience to him and to none other, in the same way that the whole
religion of the day of the Gospel at the time of the appearance of the
Prophet of God was to follow him and not to remain in one's own balance.
For, in that case, the decree of falsehood would be passed against
remaining therein. Whosoever is guided, (he is guided) for his own self;
and whoever remains, remains veiled, that rests upon his own self. God is
independent of all the worlds.


The Seventh Gate of the Second Unity

Concerning the explanation of the Day of Resurrection.

The substance of this chapter is that the meaning of 'the Day of
Resurrection' is the day of the appearance of the Tree of Reality. It is
clear that none of the adherants of the Shi'i sect have understood (the
meaning of) the Day of Resurrection. On the contrary, they have all vainly
imagined something that possesses no reality in the eyes of God. The
meaning of 'the Day of Resurrection' in the sight of God and in the
terminology of the people of truth is that, from the moment of the
appearance of the Tree of Reality in every age and in every name, until the
time of its disappearance, constitutes the Day of Resurrection.

Thus, for example, from the day on which Jesus was sent (by God)
until the day of his Ascension was the Resurrection of Moses, for the
revelation of God was manifest during that period through the revelation of
that Reality, who rewarded by his words everyone who was a believer in
Moses and punished by his words everyone who did not believe in him. For
whatsoever God had witnessed in that age (of Moses) is what He witnessed in
the Gospel. And from the day on which the Messenger of God (Muhammad) was
sent until the day of his death ('uruj-i an) was the Resurrection of Jesus,
for the Tree of Reality was manifest in the (human) temple of Muhammad, who
rewarded all who believed in Jesus and punished by his words all who did
not believe in him.

Similarly, from the time of the appearance of the Tree of the Bayan
until its disappearance in the Resurrection of the Messenger of God, which
was promised by God in the Qur'an. For it began when two hours and eleven
minutes had passed on the night of the fifth of Jumada I of the year one
thousand two hundred and sixty (1260), which is the year one thousand two
hundred and seventy from the beginning of (Muhammad's) mission. This was
the beginning of the resurrection of the Qur'an, and it will last until the
disappearance of the Tree of Reality, [p.31] for, until a thing has
attained the stage of perfection, it cannot be resurrected. The perfection
of the religion of Islam took until the beginning of the revelation, and
from then until the time of disappearance the fruits of the tree of Islam
will be manifested, whatever they may be.

The Resurrection of the Bayan will take place on the appearance of
him whom God shall manifest, for today the Bayan is in a state of seed, but
at the beginning of the revelation of him whom God shall manifest, the
Bayan will be in the final stage of perfection. It will become apparent
that the fruits of the trees that were planted are to be plucked, just as
the revelation of the Qa'im of the Family of Muhammad is identical to the
revelation of the Messenger of God himself; but this does not become
apparent except through the plucking of the fruits of Islam from the
Qu'ranic verses that were planted in the hearts of men. This plucking of
the fruit of Islam consists only in faith in him and affirmation of his
truth, and yet the only fruit that has been given has been in the contrary
sense.

He manifested himself in the very heart of Islam, where all declare
themselves Muslims through their relationship to him. Yet they have
brought him without any right to dwell on the mountain of Maku. And this
despite the fact that, in the Qur'an, God promised all men that the Day of
Resurrection would come, for that is a day whereon all shall be presented
before God, which means their being presented before the Tree of Reality;
and all shall attain to the presence of God, which means his presence.
This is because men cannot be presented before the Most Holy Essence, nor
is it possible to conceive of entering into its presence. What is possible
in terms of presentation and meeting refers to the primal Tree.

God has established the clay (tin-ra) as His own House (i.e. the
Ka'ba) so that whoever presents himself on the Day of Resurrection before
the Tree of Reality shall not regard himself as far removed from admitting
that he has been presented before God or from meeting with Him through
entering into his presence..

A ninth of a ninth of a tenth of a tenth of a moment in the Day of
Resurrection is better than years spent between resurrections, for the
fruit of more years shall be manifested upon the Day of Resurrection. In
this way, the fruit of the one thousand two hundred and seventy years of
Islam will appear from the beginning of this revelation until its end,
which is the beginning of the setting of the Sun of Reality. The fruits of
the period from the beginning of this revelation until the revelation of
him whom God shall manifest shall return to the next resurrection, which is
his appearance.

O people of the Bayan! Have mercy on yourselves, and do not render
worthless your long night when the day of resurrection appears, even as was
done by those who remained veiled among the people of the Qur'an. For one
thousand two hundred and seventy years they prided themselves on (being
believers in) Islam, and yet, when the day came when the fruit was to be
plucked, which was the Day of Resurrection, the decree of unbelief in Islam
was passed against them [p.32]. They were rendered worthless by this decree
until the next resurrection.

How many individuals have undergone mortification from the
beginning of their lives and have striven earnestly for the good pleasure
of God, and have taken pride in their dreams if they beheld the Qa'im of
the Family of Muhammad in them. And yet, now that he has appeared in the
revelation of God, which is the most manifest of revelations, bringing the
verses and explanations upon which the religion of Islam is established,
they do not present themselves before God, nor do they manifest the fruit
of their faith, nor do they arise unto that for which they were created,
and they even issue decrees against him through whom they turned to God by
night and by day, saying 'Thee do we worship' . If they only contented
themselves with that, but they do not. On the contrary, they desire to
cause distress unto the Friends of God.

O people of the Bayan! Do not commit what the people of the Qur'an
have committed, in rendering worthless the fruits of your might. If you are
believers in the Bayan, at the time of the appearance of his verses say:
'God is our Lord, with whom we associate no-one. This is what God promised
us of the manifestation of His own self. We call upon none beside Him.'
Obey him in whatever you do, for then you shall have manifested the fruit
of the Bayan. If you do not do so, you shall be unworthy of mention before
God. Have mercy on yourselves! If you do not arise to aid the
manifestation of Lordship, do not, at least, cause him any sadness, for he
shall manifest himself much as I manifested myself, and he shall cause the
creation of the Bayan to return to life. Yet you have in your hearts
considered nothing but (the possibility) of your own faith (in him).
Hasten to respond to God and to affirm the truth of his verses, for that
will be to respond to him whom God shall manifest and to affirm the truth of
his words. Let not yourselves be veiled from your beloved by anything
whatsoever, for if a decree should issue forth from his utterance it will
last until the Day of Resurrection, and through it the people of paradise
shall enjoy its pleasures, while the people of hell shall be tormented in
it.

In this day, which is the Day of Resurrection, the locus of the
distinction of (men's) fate (mahall-i fasl-i qada) resides upon this
mountain. All do what they do, imagining that it is done for his
good-pleasure, yet they accept for him what they would not accept for their
own selves. Should you enter into a covenant with God that you will not
accept for anyone anything but what you would accept for yourselves, maybe
in the next resurrection, even if you don't attain to God's presence, you
will not bring sadness upon His sign. [p. 33] It would pass beyond even the
benefit of all that believe in the Bayan were you to avoid bringing harm
upon him - and yet I know that you will not do so. Even so have I, in this
resurrection, passed beyond the benefit of them that believe in the Qur'an,
but you have not avoided doing me harm. There is no hell fiercer for you
before God than that you should turn through me towards God by night and by
day, while decreeing for me what you would no accept for yourselves. God
shall judge between me and you in truth. He, indeed, is the best of judges.

