Provisional translation 
by Juan Cole



Bahá'u'lláh 
Tablet of the Sacred Night


This Tablet descended from the Realm of Holiness on the Sacred Night. 

His Word, Exalted may He be: 

       He is the Most Glorious 

Praise be to Thee, O my God. 
I call upon Thee by Thy Name, 
whereby Thou didst save Adam from Satan, 
and didst deliver Noah from the deluge, 
Abraham from the flames, 
Moses from Pharaoh, 
it of God (Jesus) from the Pharisees,* 
Muhammad from the Abu Jahl of that time; 


And by Thy Name, 
by means of which the breezes of Thy munificence 
wafted over the bodies of contingent beings 
and the sun of Thy loving-kindness rose 
on all who dwell upon the earth and in the heavens; 


And by Thy Name, 
whereby every poor one 
standing before the gate of the cities+ of Thy wealth 
gained self-sufficiency, 
everyone abased before the manifestations of Thy grandeur 
gained honor, 
and everyone remote from the wonders of Thy grace and beneficence 
drew nigh; 

And by Thy Name, whereby the Daystar dawned 
above the horizon of thy glorious Providence, 
the pavilions of splendor were raised in the realm of Thy charity, 
and the trees of divine Unity were planted 
in the garden of Thy benevolence; 


Then by Thy Name, whereby all faces turned 
toward the Countenance of Oneness, 
all souls advanced toward the shore 
of Thy majestic Nearness and Presence, 
whereby the hearts of the Near Ones were launched 
like birds into the atmosphere of Thine imposing Greatness, 
and the intellects of the Sanctified Ones quaffed 
from the chalice of Thy Sublimity. 

By Thy Name I beseech Thee to look, O my Beloved, 
with Thy generous gaze, upon these persons, 
who are sleepless during this Night 
that Thou hast designated a festival for Thy creatures, 
wherein Thou shonest forth by Thy Name, the All-Merciful, 
upon the entire contingent world, and wherein 
the Beauty of Thy Divinity mounted the Throne of Forgiveness. 



Praise be to Thee! 
I beseech Thee by this Night, and by them 
who remained wakeful during it 
to send down upon them the most perfect good, # 
the finest beneficence, 
the richest treasure, 
the most exquisite beauty, 
the most evident revelation, 
the soundest utterance, 
the most enduring sovereignty, 
the most flawless word, 
the most ancient grace, 
the most potent sign, 
the Greatest Name, 
the most ideal benevolence, 
the most glorious Glory, 
the most sublime splendor, 
the most mighty power, 
the most clear authorization, 
the most abiding Book, 
the most fruitful fruits. 


For they have, O my God, 
gathered around Thee on the Day 
whereon all the inhabitants of earth 
have scattered and deserted Thee. 
They have set out for Thy shrine 
when all have turned away from it. 


I ask Thee at this time, O my God, 
to transform their grief into a joy 
that Thou bestowest upon them, 
and their distress into a delight 
that deriveth from Thee. 
Then impart to them, O my God, 
from the clouds of Thy mercy, 
showers whereby there shall grow in their breasts 
the plants of wisdom and the herbs of the garden 
of Thy divine Unity. 


Then render them, O my Beloved, 
unswerving in Thy love and Thy Cause 
in such wise that were all the denizens of the heavens to hinder them, 
they would pay no heed to any of them, 
but would set out, both secretly and publicly, 
toward the domain of Thy loving-kindness and graciousness. 
Then honor them, O my Beloved, with Thy Most Great Presence 
on the Day whereon Thou seatest Thyself, by Thy Beauty, 
upon the Throne of Eternity, 
the Day whereon the feet of the wise stumble 
and all those dwelling on earth and in heaven are perturbed. 


Therefore, O My God, leave them not by themselves; 
take their hands by the supremacy of Thy grace, 
then resurrect them in the presence of Thy regal generosity. 
Send them forth, O my Beloved, to that 
which Thou didst desire for them by the majesty of Thine eternity. 
For this is that Good that shall never 
have any peer or likeness in all creation; 
and verily, Thou art Powerful over all things. 


Praise be to Thee, my Beloved. 
I ask Thee by Thy hidden Name, 
then by Thy concealed description 
and Thine impregnable mystery, 
not to deprive them of the billowing seas of Thy unicity. 
Bring them aboard, O my Destiny,$ the ship of Thy Grandeur, 
nor deprive them, O my Desire, of that which is with Thee. 
Then reveal to them what will 
soothe their breasts, 
delight their hearts, 
render their souls upright, 
cause their tongues to speak forth, 
cause their hearts to soar, 
solace their eyes, 
give hearing to their ears, 
and endue their yearning with ardent passion, 
that they might be attracted 
by the breezes of Thy glorious verses, 
to which none hath attained save those 
whom Thou didst single out 
for the mystical knowledge of Thy Self; 
whom Thou didst select to receive 
the treasures of Thy resplendent Unity; 
whom Thou didst advance in order to make manifest 
Thy Cause and Thy sovereignty; 
whom Thou didst render the dawning-point 
of Thy Being in Thy lands, 
the rising-place of Thine eternity among Thy creatures 
and the manifestation of Thy divinity between Thy heaven and Thy 
earth. 

Thou art, verily, Powerful to do as Thou desirest 
and Exalted in accomplishing Thy will. 
None can resist Thy command or repulse Thy decree. 
Thou doest what Thou willest by Thine authority 
and decreest what Thou desirest by Thy seal. 
Verily, Thou art the All-Seeing, the Omniscient, the Giving, 
the Bestower, the Beloved, the Gracious. 

Then bless, O my God, those who have 
believed in Thee, and in Thy signs 
and in Thy Beauty that gleameth forth 
between Thy earth and Thy heaven. 
Then sever them, O my God, from all besides Thee, 
and entice them to the court of Thy Grandeur. 
Verily, Thou art the Forgiving, the Loving, the Reviver, 
the Resuscitator, the Mighty, the All-Conquering, the Omnipotent. 

Praise be to Thee, O my God. 
I beseech Thee by Thy Name whereby the oceans of Thy names 
have swelled in the realm of Thine attributes, 
so that the sun of Thy decree might appear in the East 
above the horizon of Thy judgment; 
and whereby the moon of Thy Plan hath striven to rise above 
the horizon of the realm of Thy command, 
to gather these persons together, O my Beloved, 
under the shade of the tree of Thy Oneness. 
Then nourish them, O my God, in secret 
with the wonders of the favor bestowed by Thy uniqueness; 
that they may taste thereof, 
just as they sought aid publicly 
from the wonders of the bounties of Thy divinity. 

Then send down upon their hearts, O my Beloved, 
what will purify them from all else save Thee 
and bring them nigh unto the hidden sanctuary 
of Thy good-pleasure and the source of Thy Will, 
that they might not speak save with love for Thee 
nor draw a breath save with devotion to Thee 
nor turn their faces toward any direction 
save the realm of Thy compassion and generosity, 
nor raise their hands save toward the heaven of Thy glory and 
nobility, 
nor open their eyes save to the marvels 
of the effulgence of the lights of Thy joy. 

Yes, my Beloved: give them to drink of the cup of life 
from the hand of this Youth in this garden, 
that they may be severed from the temple of Satan 
and be agreed upon Thy Cause in these times, 
and may make mention of Thee at eventide and sunrise 
in the shade of Thy grace, O Benefactor, 
O Revealer of the Bayán and Aspect of the All-Praised 
and Creator of the contingent world. 

Then I beseech Thee, O my Beloved, 
to remove all contention from among them, 
and clothe them in the garment of Thy loving-kindness 
and the robe of Thy kindness, 
in such wise that they shall not speak 
save of the wonders of the tokens of Thy Self-subsistence, 
nor shall there waft from them anything save that by which 
contingent beings will be guided to the court of Thy love, 
that they might ascend into the atmosphere of nearness to Thy 
Unity and soar into the expanse% of Thy sacred uniqueness; 
and that they might thereby be united in the precincts of Thy 
mercy, 
becoming as one soul before the cities+ of Thy Grandeur. 

Then I beseech Thee, O my God, 
to cleanse their hearts from the grime of contingent things, 
and the dust of beings 
so that the mirrors of their hearts might be polished 
and therein can be reflected the marvels 
of the light of Thy scintillating Beauty. 
Verily, Thou art the Giving, the Unshakeable, the Omniscient, 
and Thou art Powerful over all things. 



* Lit. "Jews" (Yahud); but Bah‡'u'll‡h in many Tablets makes it clear that he blames Jesus' being delivered to the Romans on Annas and Caiaphas, prominent Pharisees, rather than upon the Jews as a whole. 

+ Vowelled by Ishraq-Khavari as madyan, but I read it as a corruption of madayin=mada'in, cities (that is, I think an alif has dropped out). Midian was a city
associated with Jethro/Shu`ayb, so Madyan/Midian is not an impossible reading given the biblical allusions so far. But it strikes me as unusual and unlikely. 

# In the Arabic text the preposition "min" has dropped out; it should read "min kulli khayrin atammahu" not "kulla khayrin atammahu". 

$ Ishraq-Khavari gives "muna'i"; but I cannot find a meaning for form II of na'a that would make sense. Rather, I think this is the first person possessive of mana-n: destiny, death. I hate hollow and weak verbs and am glad to be corrected by a better lexicographical detective. 

% Given as "qad.a'," but I read it fad.a', as in the Hidden Words 

From Baha'u'llah, "Lawh Laylat al-Quds," in A.H. Ishraq-Khavari, ed., Risalih-'i Tasbih va Tahlil (New Delhi: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1982), pp. 174-181:
