This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  October-November 2000.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
from the George Ronald Book 4 reprint of
Star of the West1
Volume V, Nos 11-19 (27 September 1914-2 March 1915)
Volume VI, Nos 1-19 (21 March 1915-2 March 1916)
and
Volume VII, Nos 1-19 (21 March 1916-2 March 1917)


V:11, 27 September 1914
page 162
Supplication
To the Believers of God and the Maid-servants of the Merciful, Portland, Oregon.
Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O Thou Heavenly Father!
Thou hast the hosts of the Kingdom and the spiritual angels.  We, indigent souls are broken-winged birds; yet we yearn to soar toward the immensity of the Kingdom.  We are thirsty fish; we seek the Sea of the Water of Life.  We are the butterflies of the nether world; we long for the Lamp of the Realm on High.  We are in the utmost weakness and feebleness; yet we are fighting against the armies of the world.  Therefore, O Lord of Hosts! confirm us so that the army of Light may become victorious and the legions of the darkness be defeated.  Assist us in the service of the Kingdom and acquaint us with the Divine Mysteries.  Rejoice us with the glad-tidings of the everlasting sovereignty and bestow upon us a portion and a share of the Life Eternal.  Suffer the tongues to be unloosed and grant sight to the eyes; so that we may behold the world of the Kingdom and may praise with an eloquent speech Thy Beauty and Thy Perfection.
Verily, Thou art the Bestower and the Kind!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


V:11, 27 September 1914
page 163
"The world is at the threshold of a most tragic struggle"
Stirring Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá pertaining to the war in Europe.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 3 August 1914.
Dear Friends,
All over the city there is great commotion; people are wild with excitement.  A new imperial Irade1 has come from Constantinople that any and every man between the ages of 18 and 45 must be enlisted in the army register and be ready to leave at a moment's notice.  For the last few days we have heard that war was threatening between Austria and Serbia, that open hostilities have already commenced, that Austria has attacked Belgrade, that Russia has threatened Austria that unless she desists from further encroachment, she will be obliged to enter the conflict.  England, Russia and France on one hand; Germany, Austria and Italy on the other, are mobilizing their forces.  The situation is very grave.  Europe is entering one of the darkest crises of its political life.  It takes a lively imagination to picture the six great Powers of Europe armed to the teeth, with more than 20,000,000 of soldiers, waiting for the final commands of their superiors to jump into the battlefield and cut each other's throats!  No one can conceive of a greater folly and a more stupendous sin against humanity.  Everybody here thinks that this war news is the first indication of "Armageddon", the universal war which will teach mankind as nothing else could do, the barbarism of the present-day civilization and the futility of all the pacifist movements.  Europe is sitting on the crater of a world-shattering volcano which may burst forth at any moment.  The Russian, French and Austrian steamship companies have announced that their steamers will not touch the Port of Haifa for some time to come:  Therefore, instead of ten to fifteen steamers a week, there will be only one steamer a week-belonging to the Khedivial Line.  The small German colony is sending one hundred of its young men to protect the Fatherland.  Thus you see that the atmosphere of this little Syrian port is permeated with wars and rumours of wars.
When the new Irade was proclaimed that all the Turkish subjects must come under the colours, there was a real panic in 'Akká and Haifa.  One saw groups of anxious men gathered in the corners of the streets, talking excitedly about war.  The women of 'Akká were so grief-stricken that they filled the air all night with their shrieks and lamentations.  In a literal sense no one could sleep.  The children of all the Persians who have lived in Turkey for the last forty years and married Arab or Turkish women are under the law of Military Conscription.  No one can attempt escaping, as no steamer is leaving the port.  Large, flaring red bulletins are hung in the streets of Haifa, calling the "patriots" to arms.  The upper part of these bills are engraved with pictures of swords and cannons, and the lower part contains the call to arms.  No one understands the situation, and very few can guess what Turkey means to do with all these preparations.  The prices of all foodstuffs have gone up, from 10 to 40 per cent, especially sugar, tea and flour, as well as naphtha.
This evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave a stirring talk on the aforesaid news of war in Europe.  All the friends were impressed with his words of truth, and I will share them with you.  He opened his address with these simple, dramatic words:
"A resurrection is set up!  The world is topsy-turvy!  The wrong side of human character is up!  A general melee of the civilized nations is in sight.  A tremendous conflict is at hand.  The world is at the threshold of a most tragic struggle.  The evil forces of war are plotting against mankind.  The dark waves of
page 164
sinister motives and satanic passions are battling in the breasts of men.  The shafts of intrigues and diplomatic deceits have blackened the sky of man's conscience.  The chancelleries of Europe have become the combustible storehouses of warlike thoughts.  Menacing, hidden forces are brought upon the stage of spectacular play.  Vast armies-millions of men-are being mobilized and centred at their frontiers.  They are being prepared for the fearful contest.  The slightest friction will bring them into a terrific clash, and then there will be a conflagration the like of which is not recorded in the past history of mankind.
"While in America, I spoke before many Peace Societies, Churches and Conventions, and foretold the fearful consequences of armed peace in Europe.  I said Europe is like unto an arsenal and one tiny spark will cause a universal combustion.  'O men!  Come ye together and as far as possible try to extinguish this world-raging fire; do your utmost to prevent the occurrence of this general conflict; make ye an effort so that this flood-gate of human butchery may not be set loose!'  I found no one to listen to my advice.  I searched, but there were no hearing ears.  I cried out at the top of my voice, I pleaded, I enunciated the evils of war, but people were self-occupied, self-centred.  And now this is the result.  They have witnessed, they have experienced in the past that war is conducive to the destruction of the foundation of the edifice of humanity, the cause of devastation of the world of commerce, industry, arts and trade.  The combatants-the conqueror and the conquered-are both losers.  Neither party gains any substantial profit.  The two combatants are like unto two ships which collide against each other.  One may sink to the bottom of the sea, but the other will also carry away its injuries and bruises.  Therefore, the victor and the defeated fail to obtain any benefit.  The utmost is this:  Temporarily one country holds the territory of another.  This is of a short duration.  In the course of the life of that nation, a time will sooner or later come when the conquered will become again the conqueror.  In the political history of France and Germany and their wars, such reverses of national fortunes have often occurred.
"It is very strange to see how 'Illusion' has taken possession of the hearts of men, while 'Reality' has no sway whatsoever.  For example:  'Racial difference' is an optical illusion!  It is a figment of imagination, yet how deep-seated and powerful its influence!  No one can deny the fact that mankind in total are the progeny of Adam; that they are the offshoots of one primal stock; yet the optical illusion has so radically misrepresented this plain truth that they have divided and subdivided themselves into so many tribes and nations.  This is German, the other is French; that is English, a fourth is Italian, a fifth is Austrian, a sixth is Russian, etc.  Although many intelligent men amongst them know that this racial difference is an optical illusion, yet they all confess their inability to stand firm before its uncanny, invisible power.  The Realty is that all mankind are from one progeny and belong to one family, but although this is the Reality, it exercises no permanent influence upon the minds. ...
"So many wars have taken place!  So many countries are devastated, so many cities are ruined; and yet people are not satisfied with human butchery, are not satisfied with carnage and bloodshed.  Still the hearts are stiff and unfeeling!  Still the souls are callous and cold, still the minds are dark and frigid, still the people are unsusceptible and unyielding, still they are in deep sleep!  Oh!  When will they be awakened?  When will they become merciful?  When will they practice the Golden Rule?  This hatred and animosity destroys the basis of the structure of humanity, while love and amity are conducive to the well-being and prosperity of mankind.
page 165
"Today the people are thrown into the utmost consternation!  How many fathers were lamenting and groaning last night, and how many mothers have been crying and weeping in this town and 'Akká!  They are thrown into such a panic, they are so alarmed that no description can give an adequate picture!  Why this tyranny?  Who has obliged them to perpetuate these acts of savagery!  The kings and the rulers, the politicians and the statesmen live in the utmost ease in their palaces and send these innocent men and peasants who have never seen each other, into the battlefield to tear each other to pieces with shells and cannon balls.  The armies are the pawns to be played with on the chess-board of their fiendish ambitions!  How cruel is this!  How pitiless is this!  How brutal is this!  How ferocious is this!  These so-called leaders of humanity are not willing to let even one hair fall from their heads.  They are cowards and are sulking in darkness.  Why do they send these thousands and thousands of men to the field of carnage, to be mowed down by each other like the grass!
"If a number of imaginary or real difficulties have arisen between Austria and Serbia, if they are really disinterested and are anxious to keep the balance of the Powers and not disturb the Peace of Europe, why do they not go before the Court of Arbitration?  The impartial members of that Court of Arbitral Justice will look into the nature of the claims of each party, and after mature investigation decide which one is in the right.  Were they ready to refer all their differences to such a Court, this war would have been obviated.  The Universal Court of Arbitration is the only body that shall resolve all the disagreements and contentions that arise between the nations of the world.  Extraordinary exertion must be put forward by the civilized governments to organize such an influential, international organization, before which all their quarrels may be arbitrated.  What better plan can be conceived by man?  What harm is there in this?  The rulers, the cabinet ministers and the administrations of each country will find the utmost comfort and ease enjoying the fruits of their labours. ...
"If we reflect carefully, we observe that since history has been written and the deeds of mankind recorded and preserved, no one can point out a single instance that Peace, Love and Amity have been ruinous and harmful in their results.  They have filled the world with joy and radiance and happiness.
"More astonishing than all these matters is this:  These warring nations believe that the object of the religion of God is war and strife!  This is the most preposterous idea that any man could let enter into his mind! ...  How negligent are the people!  How thoughtless and inadvertent they are!  It is as though there is not a single iota of love in the hearts of men, as though they have never heard the name of love, as though their hearts are the sepulchres of hatred and envy!  Man is the most ferocious animal, yet does he accuse the wild beasts of the jungle of this quality!  The ferocious beasts kill other beasts, but not one belonging to their own species.  They kill for their own food and sustenance.  For example, man says the wolf is ferocious!
O, poor wolf!  O, wronged wolf!  The wolf tears to pieces one sheep in order to keep its body alive.  If it does not kill the sheep, it will die of hunger, because being a carnivorous animal, it cannot eat grass.  But man, who considers himself lord of creation, will become the cause of the total annihilation of a million of his fellow-beings.  The poor wolf is a very incompetent tyro in comparison with this kind of man!  Then he will boast 'I am a conqueror, I am a hero, I am a victor, I am a superior General, I am a Field Marshal, I am an Admiral!'  Man!  It is better for thee to hide thy head under the earth!  Thou hast crim-
page 166
soned the ground with the blood of thy brothers!  Thy hand is stained with their blood!  Thou hast slaughtered and butchered God's own children!  Thou hast destroyed the living temples of the Spirit!  Thou hast trampled under thy feet the rights of men!  Thou hast snuffed out the burning lamps of life and truth!  It is strange, passing strange, that notwithstanding all these violations of Divine Law, thou art yet wantonly boasting and exalting thyself above all mankind."
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá finished speaking, the room was throbbing with the Spirit!  There was a blind singer from Egypt, and he commenced chanting a number of sacred songs.  When we left the holy Presence, the spell of his powerful word was still with us, and I believe it will continue to be with us as long as we live.


V:11, 27 September 1914
page 166
A message to the American people
From the San Francisco Chronicle, 4 October 1912.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, noted Persian teacher, arrives.
Apostle of Universal Peace and Brotherhood to deliver series of lectures.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Persian teacher and disciple of universal peace, the oneness of humanity, the oneness of God, universal love, the eradication of prejudice, arrived in San Francisco early yesterday morning.  He has been in the United States six months, and though his arrival here had been arranged for and expected for several days by the local assembly of Bahá'ís, no one was at the railroad station to meet him.  This was in accordance with the expressed wish of the venerable teacher.  He had telegraphed that he desired to enter the city quietly.  His train was eight hours late and he with his suite drove to the house at 1815 California Street, which has been prepared for his residence during his three weeks stay here.
Accompanying 'Abdu'l-Bahá were Dr Amín U. Faríd, Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb and Mírzá Mahmúd of Persia, Mírzá 'Alí Akbar of Russia and M. Fugeta of Japan.  They will act as interpreters to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the series of lectures he will deliver in San Francisco and the transbay cities.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's career is romantic.  He went to the prison fortress of 'Akká, near Mount Carmel, in Palestine, with his father when twenty years of age.  With no schooling, except the teaching of his noble father, he spent forty years in prison.  Since his release four years ago he has travelled in Egypt, Continental Europe and England, pleading for the removal of prejudice and the establishment of universal peace.
At the house were a score of people, mostly women.  One woman said she did not think 'Abdu'l-Bahá would see a reporter, as he was going to Oakland in the afternoon.  But he did.
Is striking figure
'Abdu'l-Bahá is of middle stature, strongly built, and wears long, light-coloured robes.  His forehead is high, broad and full, his nose slightly aquiline and his beard and moustache grey-white.  His eyes are grey and blue, large, soft, penetrating.  His grey hair rests on his shoulders.
"My greatest happiness this morning," said he, "is this:  That I have come to such a modern and progressive city.  Praise be to God, everything is beautiful and there seems to be much joy here."
After a few questions and answers he was shown a copy of the Chronicle containing the full accounts of war preparations in the Balkan states and Turkey.  He inquired if actual hostilities had began and then asked:
"Will the Chronicle take a message from me to the American people?"  Answered in the affirmative, he dictated an appeal for universal peace.
An appeal for peace
"Praise be to God:  The United States has in reality made extraordinary progress; day by day they are advancing toward the ultimate goal.  The material virtues of the people are many; now they must think of the ideal virtues, so that the highest of the perfections of humanity may illumine the regions of America.  Among the highest virtues is universal peace, the oneness of humanity.  The chief ailment of humanity today is international strife; this militates against the advancement of the material and ideal virtues.
page 167
"The continent of America is isolated so far as other countries are concerned; the government is not thinking of making conquests, of enlarging the circle of colonization.  They are not thinking to contend with other nations so far as financial, commercial and political supremacy is concerned.  They are not the rival of any other nation.
"Their utmost desire is this:  That the continent of America be protected.
"They are engaged in the amelioration of internal conditions; they are not engaged in warfare with any nation.  Therefore, they have the time and ability to raise the standard of universal peace and spread the doctrine of the oneness of God.  May their influence spread and permeate to all parts of the world.
"Other peoples of the world have to contend with international difficulties.  First, the nations are rivals with each other so far as commercial advantages are concerned.  Second, they are thinking of the national self-aggrandizement.  Third, they are thinking of planting new colonies.  Therefore, it is difficult for them to step into this field, to uphold international peace, because they are contending, warlike, victory-loving people.  They cannot be instrumental in promulgating international peace.
Praises American democracy
"But, praise be to God, the American Government is no warlike government; the American democracy is not founded upon warlike doctrines.  Hence it becomes this democracy to uphold international peace and spread it throughout the world.  Through the promulgation of this doctrine will be distributed the greatest blessings.
"It will eliminate the darkness of prejudice, the darkness of war, the darkness of rancour and hatred, the darkness of racial prejudice, the darkness of political prejudice.  May this darkness be blotted out and the light become widespread, universal.  May the oneness of humanity become primordial, supreme.
"His holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, fifty years ago spread broadcast His great Movement, pro claimed the benefits of international peace.  This took place at a time when the thought was not in the minds of men, nor the words upon the tongues of the people.  At the time He summoned people from all parts of the Orient.  He addressed letters to the sovereigns of Europe, setting forth the results to accrue from the establishment of universal peace.  He invited all to participate in a world's arbitral court of justice, to be composed of representatives of every government in the world, the delegates thereto to be chosen and ratified by the governments.  Thereto would he referred disputes between nations for settlement.  In case any government or nation should prove rebellious concerning any decision of the court, the other nations should coalesce to force it into obedience.
"My fervent hope and fond desire concerning the American people is that through their instrumentality the scope of this project will be enlarged and that earnest concerted action between the nations of the world will result therefrom."
"This great Cause, which alone insures the happiness of the world, must receive support throughout the world."
'Abdu'l-Bahá will remain in the city for two or three weeks.  Many of the churches have invited him to fill their pulpits, and his first public appearance will be Sunday morning at 11 o'clock in the Unitarian Church at Franklin and Geary Streets.  Sunday night he will deliver a sermon in the First Congregational Church in Oakland.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has been invited to deliver a talk at Stanford University by Dr David Starr Jordan, which he has accepted.  Speaking of this yesterday, he said:
"The duty of educated men, especially university presidents of the nation is this:  To teach in the universities and schools ideas concerning universal peace, so that the student may be so moulded that in after years he may help carry to fruition the most useful and human issue of mankind."


V:11, 27 September 1914
page 168
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Through Áqá Mírzá Lutfu'lláh, London.
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Gamble.
Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved divine maid-servant!
The letter, dated 26 May of the present year, was received, but on account of the weakened condition of 'Abdu'l-Bahá the answer was delayed.  Now, as through the help and favour of God, health is secured, I therefore write the answer, so that thou mayest perceive that thou art not forgotten.  I ever remember thee and beg for thee from the Kingdom of Abhá everlasting help and bounty.
I hope thou art of those who are firm in the Covenant and that thou wilt call the people unto the Testament.  The Blessed Beauty has established this Covenant so that all (the Bahá'ís) may know that whatsoever things proceed from the Pen of the Covenant ('Abdu'l-Bahá) are based upon infinite wisdom.  They should not hurry, for it (wisdom) will become apparent and evident later on.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has ever been a concealer of defects and still is a coverer of sins and will not attempt to publish the short-comings and the faults of any soul, but will rather keep them secret.  Therefore, to some the situation seems ambiguous, for they are ignorant of the reality of the subject.
Should he ('Abdu'l-Bahá) not overlook them and explain all the events then there would remain no doubt as to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's extreme kindness.  How patient and long suffering he ('Abdu'l-Bahá) is!  If he ever utters a word or dictates something concerning a soul, it is a matter of warning which arises from kindness.
It is an act of kindness on the part of a physician when he explains the disease of his patient, for his explanation secures the recovery.
I swear by the God beside Whom there is no other God, were any one to amputate any of my limbs, I would pardon him before he had committed the crime; but I can never say that an invalid is robust and healthy, for I wish his recovery, and this is extreme kindness not enmity.
Therefore, if the believers of God wish to be kind to a soul, they should desire his well-being and try to advise him, so that the kind physician may prescribe a remedy and thus secure his recovery.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated at Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 24 August 1914.


V:12, 16 October 1914
page 178
Supplication
Cover the sins of the weak ones with the hem of the garment of Thy Mercy!  Change the indifference of the heedless ones into the essence of fidelity, wisdom and understanding!  Grant the souls a loftier effort and arouse another (spiritual) tumult in the minds so that they may sing the melody of the Supreme Realm, seek for a Glory Everlasting, long for the delicacies of the New World, soar toward the Brightest Horizon, enter the congregation of the Almighty and become the recipients of the bestowals of the Kingdom!  Thus will the dark world become luminous, the satanic field transformed into the courts of the Merciful, the mound of earth become the mound of Heaven and the terrestrial globe the Eternal Rose-garden.  Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the Hearer, the Seer!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
[Extract from a Prayer revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.]
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Ramleh, Egypt.


V:12, 16 October 1914
page 179
"If the power of love and peace become predominant,
their effects will be greater than the power of hate and war."
'Abdu'l-Bahá comments upon the war in Europe.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 6 August 1914.
Dear friends,
"And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars; see that ye be not troubled; for all these things must come to pass. ...  For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there shall be famines, and pestilences and earthquakes in divers places." (Matt. Ch. 24.)
The present conditions of the world are more or less the literal fulfilment of the above verses.  A titanic spirit of unrest has overmastered the higher instincts of mankind and they are sharpening their arms for the destruction of each other.  The history of the world does not show a more crucial and a more grave situation than this!  We are face to face with the most tremendous struggle of the race.  It is just beginning, and no one can safely predict the consummation of this tragic engagement of infuriated and maddened humanity.  How these Westerners, who have made themselves famous for their finer sensibilities and refined and delicate feelings, can engage so cold-bloodedly in the business of the slaughtering of humanity, is beyond the imagination of the practical thinkers of this age!
Tonight 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered another quickening and stimulating address on the question of the present European war and the coalitions which are being formed for the humiliation and destruction of their so-called enemies.  When all the friends and the large body of the Persian students found their way into his presence, and each person took his seat, he began to speak.  His earnestness was deep-felt and every word moved and stirred the hearts:
"The gathering storm is most portentous!  Mankind is gripped in the paroxysm of a fearful alarm.  They are in the throes of a deadly consternation.  On their ashen faces are engraved the distorted pictures of the coming horrors.  The kind shepherds have turned suddenly into ferocious wolves, tearing the sheep and the lambs into pieces.  Mercy has hidden its face; Love has covered her countenance; Sympathy does not stretch forth its arms; Affection has flown away; Truth finds itself a stranger among a large company of hypocritical admirers and Peace does not envisage herself in the clear mirror of the pure hearts.
"About ten or fifteen days ago I had the pleasure of meeting the German Consul and discussing with him the ominous signs of the coming European war.  He delivered himself of the opinion current among the statesmen, that a nation must go on increasing its annual military and naval expenditures if it desires to protect its growing commercial and national interests from the attack of its equally powerful and expanding neighbours or rivals; that the greater the military devices and paraphernalia, the more one is assured of the progress of the nation and its constantly developing resources.  In that meeting there were present a number of German and other nationalities.  Strange to say, on this question they all agreed with the Consul, and concurred in his opinion as though he had voiced their hidden and most cherished thoughts.  I said:  'If the power of Love and Peace become predominant and supreme, their effects will be greater than the power of hate and Mars, the god of war.  In the world of existence
page 180
there is no power as efficacious and as penetrative as the Power of Love.  Military Power coerces and compels men through unnatural resort to force and violation, but mankind yield happily and willingly to the Power of Love.
"'The war expenses of each nation have increased greatly of late years.  Although there has not been the physical clash and turmoil of actual war, yet in reality a financial and economic war has been going on incessantly and draining the resources of the people.  For a goodly portion of what the poor labourers, farmers and artisans get with the sweat of their brows and the labour of their hands is taken front them under the name of taxes, and expended over military preparations.  Hence war is uninterrupted.  This exaction breeds discontent, class feeling and group consciousness against the established order;-everyone realizing that human society is out of gear.  Now if they could employ this pugnacity, this hammer and tongs, this fists and heels spirit, this feverish haste in the accumulation of war materials, this waste of great thoughts over the perfection of military science,-I say if they could expend this exertion and effort, this endeavour and high-mindedness, in bringing about Love among mankind, in strengthening the ties of interdependence between nations and governments and in establishing fellowship and affinity between the races;-how much more efficacious it would have been!  Instead of unsheathing the sword to shed each other's blood, they should think of the perfection of each other's civilizations, sciences, arts, commerce, progress and advancement.  Is this not better?  Is it not worthier for the noble station of man?'
"The German Consul and others would not think of accepting my ideas, and started to object to them.
"Then I said again:  'What victory will you gain out of this war?  What will be the outcome of this bloodshed?  What will be the fruit of this onslaught?  What will be the result of this aggression?  From the beginning of history to the present time, what has been the profit that humanity has gathered from war?  Nothing but ruin, devastation, the desecration of the holy rights of man, vandalism, carnage and the brutalization of the ideals deposited by God in the hearts of men.  And if we read the spirit of modern history aright, we come to the conclusion that there is no war of conquest-the conqueror and the conquered find themselves in manifest loss at the end of the engagement. ...  Consider what ideal victories!  What brilliant triumphs!  What spiritual traces!  What heavenly successes have become manifest through the Power of Love!  Therefore how much nobler and worthier would it be if the sages and thinkers of the world expended their physical, intellectual and moral forces in the promulgation of the Power of Love among mankind.  This Power of Love is the means of reciprocity and co-operation between nations!  It is the cause of their everlasting Glory!  It is conducive to the composure and security of the world of creation!'
"I found my listeners still far from accepting my plea.  They were silenced, but I knew it was a silence out of respect and not an acknowledgement and a confession that they were convinced.  I found today that owing to the declaration of war in Europe, the Germans in this colony are very sad, and depressed, so much so that it is indescribable.  They know that they are in danger; the danger of defeat of the Fatherland.  Then, why should they hail war?
"Pursuing my conversation with the German Consul and others, I said:  'In reality all the inhabitants of Europe owe their allegiance to one Religion, and that is the Religion of His Holiness Christ; they also belong to one racial stock, which is no other than Aryan, which parent stock migrated from Asia in ancient times and settled in the different parts of that uninhabited country.  After the lapse of many generations, one community called itself Frank, another Saxon, another Norman, another Latin, etc.  Later on, step by step, they fabricated the means of differences, and many misconceptions crept in which added day by day to the gravity of the situation.  Furthermore, were we to ponder carefully,
page 181
we would realize that they are living on one continent-Europe.  Hence if they claim that their misunderstanding is on account of religious differences, as they are overshadowed by the influence of one religion, it must not exist.  If they state that their alienation comes from racial bias, because they are the descendants of one primal race, it must be brushed aside.  If they assert that their strife is on patriotic grounds, inasmuch as they inhabit the one continent it must have no weight.  Moreover, they are all mankind.  They have grown from one common trunk and are the branches of one tree.
"'When I was travelling in Europe, I observed every nation crying at the top of her voice:  "O my Country!  O my dear Country!  O my beloved Country!"  I said:  Oh, my friends!  What are all these clamours for?  Why all these acclamations?  Why all these uproars and outcries?  Why all this hullabaloo?  These countries over which you are so vociferous and at every moment show the signs of obstreperousness, are One Country, the home of humanity.  Wherever man chooses to live, there is his home and his country.  God has not divided this earth.  It is one globe, one sphere.  These boundaries that you have defined are the greatest illusions that man could ever conceive in his mind.  They have no reality.  It is similar to the division of one room into different sections, with so many hypothetical lines, calling this corner Germany, that corner France and another corner England.  Of a truth, these suppositional lines have no outward existence.  These assumed boundaries are canine divisions, for it is observed that a number of dogs divide among themselves the public square into various sections and if one dare to go beyond the limit set for it, and trespass on the rights of others, the rest will set up a dreadful howl and bark and go for it; notwithstanding that these imaginary lines have no real forms or shapes.
"'Again, let us still go a little further and investigate and find out what is this "country" over which you so quarrel and scramble?  A piece of land.  If this is the case, very well then; it is self-evident that man lives above this earth only for a few days and then for all eternity he will go under it.  It is his everlasting graveyard, his unchangeable cemetery.  Is it worthy of man to fight over his own burying-ground?  To shed the blood of his own brethren?  To destroy the divine edifice-for man is the Edifice of God?  Is it noble of him to commit all of these inhuman atrocities for the necropolis of dead bodies?'
"The object is this:  These remarks were not relished by the Germans on that day, but I saw them today in an unhappy mood.  They were visibly agitated and disturbed.  But on the other hand they are manifesting great courage and patriotism.  The young men have given up their work and are ready to start for Germany.  There are more than fifty volunteers, and probably from this small colony nearly one hundred young men will leave for the scene o£ war.  They are doing this with perfect joy and without the least complaint.  But today's news, that Russia, England and France are united together to crush Germany, has given them much food for thought.
"How cruel man is to send his brothers into the battle-field, so that they may cut each other to pieces!  Just on the simple ground that thou art German, I am English and he is French!  Although in reality they are all human and are living beneath the shade of one God.  His Divine Bestowals, Favours and Bounties have encircled all of them.  They are all the sheep of God and He as the Spiritual Shepherd is merciful to all.
"In short, the display of this barbaric passion is no other than the passion of nature.  These men, like unto animals, are the prisoners of nature, subdued and overcome by nature.  According to the requirement of nature, the animals are pugnacious and strive in the destruction of each other.  In the world of nature there are aggression, bloodthirstiness, oppression, struggle for existence, rapacity.  These qualities are the natural laws of nature.  Just as these animals are captives of nature, similarly man is conquered, subjugated and humbled by nature.  For example, anger gets the better of man, ferocity prevails upon him,
page 182
and he becomes the subject of the lower passions.  What are all these?  They are no other than the mandates of the world of nature.
"Only those persons who are in reality believers in God, who have witnessed the Signs of God, are attracted to the Kingdom of God and turned their faces toward God-they and they alone are freed from the bloody claws of nature.  Whereas formerly they were the subjects of nature, now they become the rulers.  Whereas before they were vanquished by nature, now they become its victors.  In brief, while nature invites man to the baser propensities of ego and self, the Love of God attracts him to the worlds of sanctity and holiness, justice and generosity, mercy and humanity."
...
__________
Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 7 August 1914.
Dear friends,
...
page 183
...
The ... Tablet 'Abdu'l-Bahá revealed to Rev. J. W. Van Kirk [Designer of the World Peace Flag, consisting of seven stripes representing the colours of the rainbow"] as follows:
"O thou respected truth seeker!
"Thy letter was received.  It reflected the sentiment of the oneness of the world of humanity.  The flag that thou hast forwarded was in reality the foreshadowing symbol of Universal Peace.  Today all the nations of the world are animated with a warlike spirit and all the governments of the world are filling their military storehouses, inventing infernal machines and perfecting their man-killing engines; so that their martial powers may preponderate each other; especially the Continent of Europe has become an arsenal of combustible materials.  It needs only one tiny spark to set that hell into a world-wide explosion.  It will be then such a titanic conflagration that its lurid flames shall blazon all the horizons.  Hence the 'Anthem of Universal Peace' [poem by Rev. Kirk on page 182] has still no charm in their ears.  Their universally-accepted political axioms are that the greatness and prosperity of a nation depends on her military and naval powers.  The more elaborate these preparations, the better protected and secured the well-being and happiness of that government and nation.  The kings and rulers of the world are not yet ready to acknowledge that Universal Peace is conducive to the life of the world of humanity.  In a similar strain the nobles, the demagogues and those in authority find their glory and reputation in naval and military preparedness.
"Consequently it is impossible that 'economic contentment' be realized by the people of the world save through the transforming Power of Faith.  For Faith is the solver of every problem.  Therefore you must strive to strengthen the foundation of the Religion of God.  Through the Power of the Religion of God every difficulty will be disentangled.  The Power of the Religion of God will humble the kings and set at naught the crooked motives of those who are in supreme authority.  Then endeavour ye, that the Power of True Religion which breathes the Spirit of Life into the dead body of the world of humanity, may be promulgated.  This is the antidote for the poisoned body of the world and a quick-healing remedy for the rancorous disease of man.  For this reason diffuse thou as much as thou art able the sweet Fragrance of the Holy Spirit, teach the people the Divine advice and exhortations and spread far and wide the heavenly Teachings ...."
__________
Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 8 August 1914.
Dear friends,
...
page 186
... I was weaving garlands of ideals with the fresh, sweet flowers of the spirit, and thinking of those far-off friends who are always near, when suddenly 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered the garden, leading with his right hand a sweet little girl of five or six years, all dressed in white.  He was talking with her in Turkish, and she was answering with much grace and dignity.  "This is my guest!" he said, as he pointed to her while standing on the steps of the house "Come, Come! my dear friend!  We will go in and have tea and sweets!"  And the host and the guest disappeared in the deepening dusk of the night.  In the half-darkness of the night, I heard 'Abdu'l-Bahá's clear voice calling to his sister:  "Khánum!  Khánum!  I have brought you a guest.  What nice things have you for her?  She is the guest of honour."
Was not this an ideal picture?  Even now while the whole world is in a great turmoil and 'Abdu'l-Bahá's heart and head are filled with pity and sympathy for the afflicted, he is still the simple, child-loving father, overflowing with tenderness, benignity, benevolence and affection.
This morning I was called into his presence, and after reading a few letters and dictating a number of Tablets, he spoke about the present war and the tremendous issues at stake.  There are wild stories of battles fought on land and sea and victories won by the contending parties, but they lack veracity and accuracy; and this evening there was an interesting meeting, 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivering a short talk, as follows:
"These dreadful events are as warnings on the part of God:-so that they may quicken the people and make them mindful.  But the majority of mankind are like unto the children, who are being rocked in a cradle.  The harder they are rocked to be awakened, the deeper they fall into sleep.  East and West the affairs of the people are in utter confusion and the markets of the world are afflicted with lethargy.  The wheels of international transactions are at a stand-still.  We shall wait and see what God has decreed to be the outcome of this universal upheaval.  As for you, pray meanwhile in behalf of the people-so that the forces of Peace may gain ascendancy over the powers of war.  They are now in great distress.  From all sides they are surrounded with difficulties and hardships.  Perchance, God willing, they may become mindful and aware, be released from negligence, abandon tyranny and oppression, treat each other with justice and fairness, and give up the dictates of selfishness and personal interest.  Our hope is that they may be freed from the cruelty of passion and egoism; that these wicked powers may not overmaster them; that they may turn their faces toward God; that the hearts may become illumined; that the sphere of the minds be extended; that avarice and covetousness may not remain; that trust in God and self-reliance may take possession of their beings that they may be satisfied with their own rights and that they may not rise in aggression to trample under their feet the rights of others.  May all of the causes of war and conflict, hardships and sufferings, be entirely removed! ...  In short, pray and supplicate at the Threshold of the Almighty in behalf of the heedless souls; for they know not what they are doing!  May they become emancipated from the defects of their own nature!  May they be imbued with the qualities of the heavenly angels!  May they give up ferocity and be characterized with the attributes of the Merciful!  May they ever live in accord with the good-pleasure of the Lord of mankind!  May they become the guardians of the rights of the oppressed and downtrodden!  May they be the real servants in the Palace of Universal Brotherhood!"


V:12, 16 October 1914
page 184
Recent Tablet to the Persian Bahá'ís
HE IS GOD!
O ye friends of the heart and soul of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
The violators of the Covenant have raised a new cry and have written to Europe "That 'Abdu'l-Bahá has become exceedingly weak, that he is no longer able to perform any work, and that he is in great danger and before long he will say his farewell words.  Now, this is our chance."
From this news suddenly through the blessing of the Blessed Perfection health was granted to me.  Immediately I began to write Tablets so that the "Aiadi"1 of the Cause of God would give the Glad-tidings to the friends that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is not weak.  Through the help and assistance and the blessing and confirmation of the Blessed Beauty he is exceedingly healthy, and the proof of it is that day and night he is either writing or revealing (Tablets).  Through my own will power all the symptoms disappeared.  In short, now I am writing with exceeding joy and happiness.
The writings of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl-may my life be a sacrifice to him-I am sending to you in order that you will, all together, compile books from these writings and immediately print and circulate them.
I expect Divine confirmations for the "Aiadi" of the Cause of God.  Upon them be the blessings of their benevolent Lord.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


V:13, 4 November 1914
page 201
Tablet for the American Bahá'ís
To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in America.  Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful!
From the Graces of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh I beg for you firmness and steadfastness.  Today whosoever is a herald of the Covenant is confirmed and assisted.  In these days a number of souls, whose deeds are known in America as clear as the sun, have arisen in enmity against the Centre of the Covenant.  Their is the vain imagination that they can extinguish the Light of the Candle of the Covenant.  Vain indeed is their thought.  The Candle of the Covenant is like unto the Morning Star which never sets.
In short, after a journey through Europe and a visit to the Holy Land, their honour, Mr Remey and Mr Latimer, are now returning to America.  I send them.  I am hopeful that from the Bestowals of His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, they may become confirmed and assisted in the diffusion of the Fragrances of God.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The original is in the handwriting of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Mt. Carmel, 19 October 1914.


V:13, 4 November 1914
page 202
Visiting Tablet for Frau Babette Ruoff
A visiting Tablet for the Maidservant of God, Frau Babette Ruoff.
Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O Almighty!
Endear thou this maidservant of Thy Threshold, Frau Ruoff, in the Kingdom of Thy Holiness, and submerge her in the Ocean of Sight.  Overlook her shortcomings; confer upon her Thy Grace!  Vouchsafe her Thy Purity in the Court of the Paradise of Abhá!  Bestow upon her Eternal Life and suffer her to become the manifestor of infinite bestowals in the meeting of transfiguration.  Verily Thou art the Generous!  The Pardoner and the Compassionate.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 April 1914, home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá Mt. Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


V:13, 4 November 1914
page 202
Tablet to Julia Staebler
Through Miss Alma Knobloch, to the maidservant of God, Fraulein Julia Staebler:
Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou maidservant of God!
Thy letter was received.  I am much occupied, therefore brevity is befitting.  Be very grateful to Miss Alma Knobloch and Miss Anna Köstlin, for they became the cause of thy guidance.
Thy beloved mother ascended to the apex of the Kingdom.  She is the associate and the companion of the spiritual ones.  They witness this world and the inhabitants thereof, for the veil is rent asunder and the covering is taken away from before the insight.  Beg of God for them the exaltation of spiritual degrees.
Praise be to God that, on the Day of the Declaration of His Holiness the Báb, you celebrated the Feast with the utmost beauty.  The nineteen days' Feast has the utmost importance, that the beloved ones may gather in a meeting, be occupied with the utmost love and fellowship in mentioning the name of God, and speak about the glad tidings of God, deliver the proofs and evidences of the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh, mention the praiseworthy deeds and the sacrifices endured by the Believers of God in Persia, talk about the severance and the attraction of the martyrs and remember the co-operation and the mutual assistance of the friends.  Therefore this nineteen days' Feast is most important.
The believers of God in Persia sacrifice their lives in the path of each other, the rich give to the poor, and the worthies protect and guard the weak ones.
Convey to all the friends the wonderful greeting of Abhá.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Dublin, N.H., 7 August 1912.


V:14, 23 November 1914
page 209
"The song of the Covenant"
The Divine Minstrel held the stringed instrument in His Hand, and precluded a melody and tune after the Persian note, and sang this Song with a loud voice, as follows:
This is the Ancient Covenant!
This is the One Who has the Cup in His Hand!
This is the One Who has brought failure in the market of the Joseph of the Merciful God!
This is the Testament of Accord!
This is a Covenant to hold to, and utterly detach one's self from aught else!
This is the cause of stopping the cries of contradiction (made by deniers) through the Divine Mercy!
This is the Pre-existent Covenant!
This is the weighty Mystery!
This is the Greatest Secret of the Countenance of Bahá-May my soul redeem His beloved ones!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
[Extract from Tablet]


V:14, 23 November 1914
page 211
Trumpet call to the East and West
Tablet from "The Centre of the Covenant"
To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful!
Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
East and West.
HE IS GOD!
Glory be unto Thee, O God! for Thou hast opened the Doors of the Kingdom of Grandeur and Majesty before the faces of Thy beloved ones; overshadowed them with the wide-spreading Tree of Thy Mercifulness; stirred them into cheerfulness by the Breezes of Acceptance from the Garden of Thy Singleness and caused the downpour of pure Waters from the heaven of Thy Generosity, through which Thou didst cleanse the hearts of Thy friends.
Thou didst resuscitate the spirit of those who have arisen in Thy service with the Breaths of the Holy Spirit and reinforced them with the angels of Thy Sanctification and the unseen Cohorts from the Supreme Concourse.  Verily, this was no other but a reinforcement from Thee and a fresh Confirmation on Thy part; in order that they might arise in the proclamation of Thy Word, the diffusion of Thy Fragrances, the perusal of Thy Verses, the promulgation of Thy Religion, the propagation of Thy Teachings, the universalization of Thy Grace and the strengthening of Thy Covenant.  Verily, they have pitched on the apex of the world, the Tabernacle of Thy Oneness, whose cords are unbreakable, under whose shade nations and peoples shall dwell and which is glorified with the Bestowal of Thy Effulgence.
O Lord!  We are weak, fortify us with Thy Power; we are prisoners, shine upon us the Light of Thy Freedom!
O God!  This captive has no other protector save Thee; this afflicted one has no other guardian except Thee, and this weak soul has no other support beside Thee!
O Lord!  O Lord!  Grant endurance and fortitude to these broken wings and brace and steel the nerves of these suppliant birds;-so that they may soar towards the apex of prosperity, wing their way through the immensity of success to the highest station of worthiness, stretch forth their pinions to reach the loftiest point in Thy Abhá Kingdom and the apogee of grandeur in Thy Supreme Concourse:  thus their eyes may be brightened by beholding the lights and their ears be charmed by listening to the singing of the mysteries!
page 212
O Lord!  Assist them in the promotion of Thy Glad-tidings between the East of the world and the West thereof; inspire them to speak of Thy glorification in the congregations of fellowship and enliven them to impart the gospel of the appearance of Thy Kingdom in the zenith of the universe.  Thus, through mutual attraction, hot tears might flow from their eyes, their hearts be drawn towards the refulgent Light of God, supplicating Thee, beseeching in Thy Presence, their breasts expanded by the signs of Thy Singleness and their visions clarified by perceiving the Standards of Thy Victory amongst Thy creatures.
O God!  Suffer their joy to be in the glad-tiding of Thy Manifestation; their happiness in the shining forth of Thy Light; their serenity in the obtainment of Thy Favour, their health in the healing wonders of Thy Name; their life in the Breaths of the Spirit of Thy Holiness; the consolation of their hearts in the winning of Thy Bounty; their hope in the propagation of Thy Cause and their aspirations in the promotion of Thy Word.
Verily, Thou art the Confirmer, the Omnipotent, the Self-Subsistent, the Giver, the Mighty and the Most Beautiful, and verily Thou art powerful over all things.
O ye friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  It has been sometime since correspondence and letter-writing has been postponed, because this servant of the Threshold of the Almighty-'Abdu'l-Bahá-has been travelling continually throughout the East and the West for the last four years, reminding the people of the appearance of the Manifestation of the Lord of Hosts;-so that the Occident might become illumined and the Orient perfumed.  Therefore, in all the meetings and temples the cry of, "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!" reached to the zenith of the Supreme Concourse and the voice of, "O my Lord the Supreme!" soared unremittingly towards the Court of His Highness the Almighty.  In the temples of many a nation the Cause of the Possessor of Existence was taught and in the houses of the worship of many a religion meetings were held for announcing the Signs of the Clement Lord.  In the Christian Churches the Spirit was breathed and in the Synagogues of the Jews the Gospel of the Appearance of the Lord of Hosts was proclaimed.  In the Universities of Europe and America, such as the University of Oxford, England, and the Leland Stanford University in San Francisco, California, which are considered in the vanguard of educational institutions of the world, eloquent addresses were delivered.  In the last mentioned university there were present one hundred and seventy-five professors and one thousand eight hundred students.  Many speeches were given before the various Theosophical, Spiritualistic and Esperanto Societies, and a speech was delivered before the Open Forum in San Francisco, explaining the aim of Eastern and Western systems of philosophies.  In all these churches, temples, synagogues, meetings and clubs, through the Favour and Bounty of the Blessed Perfection,1 there was not found one soul who could utter a word of opposition and criticism.  Every one listened most attentively to the explanation of teachings and proofs, and all expressed thanks and gratitude at the end of the
page 213
meetings.  This was only made possible through the grace and bestowal of Bahá'u'lláh.  For under all circumstances the Sea of the Confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá was waving high and the cry of 'Abdu'l-Bahá ascended to the highest apex.
Undoubtedly you have read the contents of the American and European newspapers which are mirrors reflecting the public opinion of other nations.  Verily, truth is that which is concurrently testified to by all wise men!  The contents of these magazines and newspapers are the traces of the pen of the followers of Christ, the people of Moses, philosophers, professors and thinkers of the West.  For example, amongst them might be mentioned, the Palo Allan, published in the town wherein the Leland Stanford University is founded, the newspapers of Oxford, Christian Commonwealth, Century, Herald, Standard, Review of Reviews, the Arabic newspapers of New York, etc., etc.  The philosophers, professors and literary men have expressed their opinions concerning this Cause in these periodicals.  This was again through the mercy and providence of the Blessed Perfection whose Absolute Will had ordained the promotion of the Cause of God in all parts of the world and who confirmed this servant of the Threshold in this service.
In short, although 'Abdu'l-Bahá considers himself as a drop; yet this drop is connected with the Most Great Sea.  Although he looks upon himself as an atom, yet this atom is related to the world-illuminating sun.  As it is said:  "The Originator of all these voices is the King himself;" or in other words:  "It is through His assistance."
Unquestionably this physical body and human energy would have been unable to stand this constant wear and tear, and were it not for the support of the angel of Providence even the bones of this servant would have mouldered away.  But the aid and help of His Highness the Desired One was the Guardian and Protector of the weak and humble 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Through the many annoyances and inconveniences of the journey, physical exhaustion was produced in the nerves and the various indispositions caused poor health, but the Spirit was so energized that this great weakness and excessive feebleness disappeared in a short period of time, and ere long 'Abdu'l-Bahá will be occupied again with reading and writing.
However, back of this apparent silence and interruption of all correspondence for the time being, there was hidden another wisdom.  It was this:  That the believers of God might walk in the foot steps of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and raise such a melody and show forth such a firmness and steadfastness that the diffusion of the Fragrance of God might continue whether he does exist or not, nay, rather that all of them might roar like unto the sea and break forth into joyous songs of thanksgiving.  Thus these souls who are anticipating the death or departure of this servant at the Divine Threshold might be afflicted with regret and remorse and realize that the exaltation of the Blessed Cause and the increasing majesty of the Word of God does not depend upon the existence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Praise be to God!  How inscrutable are His ways!  When His Holiness the Báb-may my life be a ransom to Him!-was martyred; the enemies vociferously cried out that this Cause was totally annihilated!
page 214
Afterwards, they witnessed the result contrary to their expectations; for with the martyrdom of His Holiness the Báb, the Word of God was promulgated more widely.  Then, changing their front, they expected the departure of the Blessed Perfection, dreaming vainly that after His ascension the Blessed Tree would be uprooted.  Praise be to God, that through the Bounty and Bestowal of the Blessed Perfection they were stricken with self-condemnation and grief.  In a similar manner, the pretenders and Covenant-breakers are waiting the decease and the passing away of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in various and divers manners; i.e., either that he may be cast to the bottom of the sea or be suspended high on a cross, either be banished to the remotest country, be imprisoned in the dark dungeon of a fortress or through manifold sickness and illness he may quit singing the Songs of Life and the Anthems of Light-that thus after him they might obtain a field for the display of their nefarious activities and the promotion of their poisonous ideas.
Alas!  Alas!  Vain is their imaginings.  Whether 'Abdu'l-Bahá does exist or not the Cause of God shall be protected and preserved from all these supposed dangers through the Power of the Kingdom of Abhá.  Were the wheels of the Cause of God stopped in their onward progressive march through the setting of those two brilliant suns (The Báb and Bahá'u'lláh)?  Or is it possible that through the death of this servant of the Threshold, the Cause of God will lose its influence?  Alas!  Alas!  Ere long you shall see them (the náqidín1) in manifest loss!
Soon after the ascension of Bahá'u'lláh, while they were weltering in the midst of rebellion and violation, I predicted that in a short space of time you would see the náqidín in evident deprivation!  The present condition is an unmistakable assurance that that prediction has literally been fulfilled.
Therefore, rest ye assured that their present baseless surmises will be as barren and as fruitless as their past imaginings.  Some have also asserted that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is on the eve of bidding his last farewell to this world, that his physical energies are being depleted and drained and that ere long these complications shall put an end to his life.  This is far from truth.  Although in the outward estimation of the violators and defective-minded the body is weak on account of the great ordeals in the Blessed Path, yet, praise be to God, through the Providence of the Blessed Perfection the spiritual forces are in the utmost rejuvenation and strength.  Thanksgiving behoveth the Lord, that now, through the blessing and benediction of Bahá'u'lláh, even the physical energies are fully restored, divine joy obtained, the supreme glad-tidings are resplendent and ideal happiness overflowing.  I hope that, in the future, letter-writing and correspondence may continue uninterruptedly.
O ye loyal friends of the Blessed Perfection!  It is hoped that, through the wonderful bestowals of that Peerless Adored One, a new dynamic acclamation and stirring activity be realized amongst the divine believers so that they may obtain boundless rejoicing and exultation through the Melody of the Kingdom of Abhá which has moved the invisible world, and arise in the delivery of the Word of God;-so that the Holy Fragrance of God may transform the East and the West into the Paradise of Abhá, the Clouds of Grace change the surface of the earth into a delectable Rose-garden and
page 215
the Breeze of Compassion give fragrance and perfume to the plain and the meadow.  This state is only made possible through teaching the Cause of God, explaining the Proofs of God, demonstrating the Religion of God with divine evidences and irrefutable arguments and guiding the inhabitants of the earth to the Fountain of Reality!
Consider, that the Apostles of Christ were few in number, but because they were filled to overflowing with His Graces, and the essence of His Advice and Commandments was circulating, like unto the spirit, through their veins and arteries, to such an extent that one could find nothing else throughout their beings save His Love, and they girded up the loins of endeavour to convey the Message.  Now it has become manifest what a tremendous effect and result their services produced!  We must also act accordingly and follow in their footsteps.
O ye divine believers!  Today any soul who is a teacher of the Cause is confirmed.  The teachers are in the front rank, are favoured at the Threshold of the Almighty and helped from the Kingdom of Abhá.  The believers of God must exercise the utmost love, respect and consideration towards the teachers;-so that in whatever place they may enter, joy and happiness be obtained.  But regarding the qualifications of the teachers, they are revealed in the Divine Tablets.  They must adorn themselves with those attributes.  I declare by God, beside whom there is no God, that if today a weak mosquito is characterized with the qualifications of the teachers and summons the people to the Divine Kingdom, it will become a soaring falcon of heaven and the ephemeral moth will be changed into an eagle of the apex of the Merciful; the drop will be transformed into a surging ocean and the atom will emit the brilliancy of the sun.  From every part the cry of, "Where are the teachers?" is being raised, and from the Kingdom of Abhá, the voice of, "Where are the attracted ones?  Where are the severed ones?  Where are the righteous ones?  Where are the sanctified ones?" reaches to the ear of intelligence.  The inhabitants of the world have attained to a most astonishing capacity and are ready to hearken to this Call.
O ye friends of God!  Show ye an effort, put ye forth an extraordinary exertion-so that this Candle may become the witness of every congregation, and this lay or strain be the Cause of happiness to every human soul.
Next spring whosoever has competency, or in other words, can provide sufficient and adequate travelling expenses for his coming and return, so that he can journey with the utmost joy and fragrance, if he asks for permission to visit the Holy Threshold, it will be granted.  Now, the present conditions show the wisdom of withholding permission in the past, for during these days of general revolutions and disturbances, the pilgrims would have been obliged to suffer innumerable difficulties.  Be ye admonished!  O ye possessors of intelligence!  Hence, it is plain that all which is written is based on a consummate wisdom.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
Glory be unto Thee, O Thou whose Seas of Bestowals are waving and whose Breezes of Providence are wafting over all those who have arisen to
page 218
promote Thy Word amongst mankind and are hastening towards the city of self-sacrifice with a heart overflowing with love and fidelity and a tongue eloquent with the praise of Thy Abhá Beauty!
O Lord!  Confirm whoever opens his mouth in the explanation of Thy Cause; arises in the diffusion of Thy Fragrances, from whose lips flows the irresistible torrents of evidence in the elucidation of Thy Religion; waves like unto the surging of the mighty ocean; sings like unto the singing of the golden-tongued nightingale in the Garden of Thy Knowledge, and roars like unto the roaring of the lion in the Forest of Thy Favour.
O Lord!  Cause them to quaff from the goblet which is filled with the Wine of Thy Guidance, exhilarate them with the intoxication of Thy Elixir, suffer them to speak of Thy most incontrovertible proofs, inspire them with irrefragable1 evidences and demonstrations and teach them the essences of wisdom and understanding.
Verily, thou art the Clement, Thou art the Confirmer, the Powerful, the Mighty and the Omnipotent, and verily there is no God beside the Lord of Grace and Mercy!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 22 September 1914.  Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


V:14, 23 November 1914
page 216
Message to the Bahá'ís of the West
"Today, whoever is a herald of 'The Covenant', is the light of the regions!"
Mr George Latimer writes of visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
To the Star of the West:
This present trip of nine months through Europe and culminating in our visit with 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Holy Land has brought a new realization of the Cause to Mr Remey and myself.  I feel we are entering upon a new era of progress,-one in which the Call of the Kingdom must be raised in such a manner as to reach the entire world.  The method by which this can be accomplished is through the unity and attraction of the friends.  We have had the letter of the Teachings and now is the time to get the Spirit of the Divine Admonitions.  It is this spirit-which 'Abdu'l-Bahá radiates so bountifully-that the world of humanity is crying out for in its present crisis.  In considering how to reach the people through writing and speaking 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "You must be very moderate.  Consider the taste of the public.  This is the best policy.  Moderation, moderation.  You must speak and write in such a manner as not to offend anyone.  The Lord addressed Moses and Aaron saying:  'When you go to Pharaoh, speak in a moderate, sweet language'."
The keynote of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's Message to the American friends is to be found in the following talks given to us during our stay in Haifa, and they bring out two essentials which are so necessary for today.  One-the acquiring of the spirit of harmony and happiness of the Kingdom of Abhá; the other, the giving of that spirit to the world.
He gave the following talk on 9 October:  "On this journey I hope that both of you will return to America with a new power, filled with the glad tidings of the Kingdom.  Be ye full of joy to such an extent that in whatever meeting you enter those present may be permeated with a spirit of heavenly blessedness."
On 18 October we were called into his presence about 6:30 in the evening and after a few remarks he spoke as follows:  "There are many heralds in this world.  Here is a herald who summons the people to the love and defence of his country, calling out at the top of his voice:  'O my country, O my beloved country!'  There is a herald who blows the bugle of New Nationalism.  Here is another herald who calls the people to politics, in order that he may wield great powers of state.  There is another person who is a herald of literature and science.  Here you find a soul who is the herald of the commercial interests and its expansion.  And there is still another herald who sounds the trumpet of war and militarism.  But praise be to God, that you are the heralds of the Kingdom of God.  All these contending voices which are raised in the world today will ere long be silenced and hushed, but the call of the Kingdom of God will gain volume and impetus day by day.  The popularity of these worldly heralds may last for a year or two, but the fame of the souls, who are the heralds of the Kingdom, is eternal for they are sounding the trumpet of celestial, Universal Peace.
page 217
Their voices will ring throughout the future centuries and will be immortal and age-abiding.  Thank ye God that ye are the heralds of the Kingdom of Abhá, the heralds of the Covenant of the Almighty.  All other voices will be repressed but this harmonic song of the Kingdom of Peace and Truth is eternal and everlasting.
"Now, I desire to send you back to the United States.  I supplicate and beseech at the Threshold of the Kingdom of Abhá that you may go forth into the world with a heavenly power, with radiant hearts and with breaths imbued with the Fragrances of the Holy Spirit!  May you be confirmed and assisted and may you raise such a melody and sing such a song as to stir and move the hearts of the American people.  I anticipate to receive glad-news from you."
'Abdu'l-Bahá's farewell talk was given to us 19 October about four in the afternoon.  We were ushered into his room where he was writing the Tablet to the American friends (see facsimile herewith1).  On being shown this Tablet after our return a Persian scholar immediately called our attention to the firmness of the hand-writing indicating the strength and health of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Never have I seen him in better physical health and spirits and he confirmed that impression in the following talk:  "One of the things that ill-wishers circulated in London is that 'I have grown old and weak and that my physical forces are on the wane, consequently some people have gained ascendancy over my mind and caused me to issue these commands.'
"My power consists of the Bestowals of the Blessed Beauty.  They are all spiritual Favours given to me by Bahá'u'lláh.  From early morning until now I have been reading and writing and I am feeling exceedingly well.  Young people like you can only work three or four hours without ceasing.  When in America, although I had a nervous fever, yet I attended churches, meetings, conventions, speaking and crying out at the top of my voice.  Never was I attacked with a spiritual weakness or inability.  In Budapest I had a high fever and a severe cold.  Notwithstanding this, from six in the morning until twelve at night, I was either speaking, calling on the people, addressing meetings or writing.  At nine in the evening there was a meeting on the top floor of a high building in a remote part of the city.  A heavy snow was falling.  It was very cold weather.  I had this cold and fever, but not-
page 218
withstanding this, I went, ascended 120 steps and addressed the people for about two hours.
"In short I am sending you away.  I supplicate and entreat confirmation for you; I beg strength and power for you.  I hope that the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá may encircle you and that you may become the means of the guidance of the people.  With reinforced hearts, strong resolution and heavenly assistance may you loose your tongues, deliver eloquent speeches and promote the Word of God.  You have undertaken much trouble in coming here.  You must be very happy; you must be very rejoiced because you have come to this Sacred Spot and worshipped at the Holy Tomb of the Báb.  For many days you have associated with me and I have enjoyed your visit, and I hope that good results will issue therefrom.  Today whosoever is a herald of the Covenant is the light of the Regions.  In the Supreme Concourse the Heavenly Cohorts are arrayed, watching to see who will enter the arena of service of the Covenant, that they may rush forward to reinforce, to strengthen and to confer upon him triumph.  In brief, be ye overflowing with joy; be ye overflowing with happiness for ye are the objects of the Favour of the Blessed Beauty.  Be ye full of clamour and acclamation like unto a cup which is overflowing to the brim."
May the friends arise as never before to pass this cup of Divine joy to the thirsty, parched world.
Faithfully in the Spirit of the Covenant,
George Latimer


V:15, 12 December 1914
page 225
Supplication
Bring them together again, O Lord, by the power of Thy Covenant, and gather their dispersion by the might of Thy Promise, and unite their hearts by the dominion of Thy Love; and make them love each other so that they may sacrifice their spirits, expend their money, and scatter themselves for the love of one another.  O Lord, cause to descend upon them quietness and tranquillity!  Slower upon them the Clouds of Thy Mercy in great abundance, and make them to characterize themselves with the characteristics of the Spiritual!  O Lord, make us firm in Thy noble command, and bestow upon us Thy Gifts through Thy Bounty, Grace and Munificence.
Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful and Benevolent.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


V 15, 12 December 1914
page 232
Tablet to the Panama Pacific International Exposition
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Bahá'ís regarding their attendance at the Panama Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco in 1915.
From Tablet dated 14 April 1914
"The believers of God from now on must think about going to the Panama-Pacific International Exposition (in San Francisco).  Every one goes to the Exposition either for amusement, or recreation, or in the hope of obtaining commercial benefits.  But you, who are the believers of God, enter the Exposition with the desire to summon the people to the divine Kingdom, and hope to receive the breaths of the Holy Spirit."


V 15, 12 December 1914
page 232
With 'Abdu'l-Bahá upon Mount Carmel
Charles Mason Remey
Before leaving Egypt for Syria, both the United States consular agent and Cook's representative in Port Said tried to discourage Mr Latimer and me from going into Turkish country, for they knew that war was imminent.  However, we had 'Abdu'l-Bahá's instructions to come to Haifa by the most feasible route; so we left Egypt by the first steamer bound for the Syrian ports.
Upon our arrival in Haifa we found that the troubled condition of the land had not been exaggerated.  The mobilization of the army had been on for some time.  All the foreign post offices were closed; the banks were also shut; consequently business was almost at a standstill, and the mass of the people were under the spell of war panic.
In the midst of all the unrest and confusion we found 'Abdu'l-Bahá serene, calm and peaceful.  After sending to a place of safety in the
page 233
mountains the various Bahá'í families of Haifa and 'Akká, 'Abdu'l-Bahá had gone up into the hills himself to see to their welfare, and it was upon his return to Haifa from this mission of service that we met him.
During the fourteen days we were with 'Abdu'l-Bahá he spent most of his time on Mount Carmel.  Upon a shelf half way up the mountain overlooking the bay of Haifa with 'Akká in the distance, is the tomb of The Báb, and near this are several houses.  In one of these lived a friend and in one room of his house 'Abdu'l-Bahá stayed.  In another building nearby some of the Bahá'ís lived.  We lodged the nights in Haifa, but the days we spent upon the mountain near 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Because of the condition of unrest in the country, there were but few people coming to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He spent much time alone in his room writing Tablets.  We often saw him apparently lost in meditation, and we felt that he must have been sending his spirit out to the people in all parts who were suffering so intensely for that which he had to give.
All pilgrims will testify to the atmosphere of the spirit which rests upon Carmel, "The Mountain of God".  From the earliest times God's revelators have stood upon her slopes proclaiming their messages to the world, and now from this same holy ground 'Abdu'l-Bahá is demonstrating the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh and establishing the Abhá Peace in the heart of humanity.
During those fourteen days in that Holy Spot a real inner awakening came to us.  It was a greater realization of the spirit of The New Day-the spirit of The Covenant of God-the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh which is radiating so fragrantly from His Branch, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
During our visit we had several personal interviews with 'Abdu'l-Bahá and many times we heard him give short, informal, general talks, but the greatest blessing which was ours seemed to come to us from within our hearts as we responded to the spirit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-that spirit-impossible to describe in words-the spirit in which he does all things, and which, coming from him, penetrates to the hearts of all who in soul contact with him, taking with it joy, love, peace and the life of The Covenant.
Amid this shower of bounty I realized as never before that the Bahá'í Message can only be given effectively by coupling with the letter of The Truth the spirit of the Cause of God!  It is this spirit of love and gentleness which penetrates the souls of those whom we meet, and when the souls are thus attracted, the message penetrates through the minds into the hearts of the people, and thus spiritual seeds are sown which in due time bring forth only its like.  War brings forth war, and peace brings forth peace.  'Abdu'l-Bahá stands as the central exponent of The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh which is the Oneness of humanity and Peace.
The mission of all those who have received this light is to go forth to humanity carrying to the people of all classes, nations, races and religions the Bahá'í Message, in the spirit in which it has been revealed.  Therefore let us all hasten to so purify our hearts that nothing may remain there save love and peace, so that we may lead the people to the source of Divine Bounty.


V 15, 12 December 1914
page 233
Extract from Tablet to Charles Mason Remey
"With the utmost resolution and constancy call the souls to the Kingdom of Abhá and invite them to the firmness and steadfastness in The Covenant and Testament.  Read to them the translation of the Tablet of The Branch and speak with gentleness, moderation and loving-kindness, saying:
"We have no other aim save the protection of the Fortified Fortress of the Cause of God.  We must guard this Fortified Fortress from the attack of the thoughtless ones.  Hence we must all turn our faces to the appointed Centre in order that the Bahá'í Unity might be preserved; otherwise in one year the Bahá'ís would be divided into a thousand sects.  We entertain no other object except the safety of the Cause of God."
'Abdu'l-Bahá


V 16, 31 December 1914
page 242
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
To the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, London.
Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O firm ones in the Covenant!
Your letter was received and its contents became known.  A Tablet (lit. letter) was written to Tihrán fifteen months ago and it was published and spread in all parts of Persia and now is in the hands of all (the friends).  The exact text of that Tablet is this:
O servant of the Blessed Threshold!
Thou didst complain of the decline of trade.  This year calamities, unfortunate decline and corruption have encompassed the world.  Now the proof is apparent to all.  'Abdu'l-Bahá in churches (lit. synagogues) and meetings in many of the cities of Europe and America loudly proclaimed the Cause of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and called (people) to the Kingdom of Abhá.  And he ('Abdu'l-Bahá) brought forth luminous proofs and stated clear conclusions and manifest arguments.  There remained no excuse for any soul whatsoever, because most of the talks were published in newspapers and spread in the world.  Notwithstanding this, still the people are captives in the sleep of negligence and are prisoners of nature and inattentive to Reality.  Still the people desire material luxury to such a degree that Stir-i-Isráfíl (i.e., the trumpet of Isráfíl summoning mankind to resurrection) does not awaken them.  Of course this negligence, unthankfulness and unmindfulness are the causes of regret, distress, war and dispute and produce devastation and misfortune.  If the people of the world do not turn to the Greatest Name, great misery will follow.  But for the sake of the believers it is my hope that traces of the favours of God may be apparent and their affairs become exceptional.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
This (above) Tablet was written fifteen months ago and the distressed happenings of today were mentioned in it.  Notwithstanding this we pray with the utmost supplication and lamentation at the Threshold of God that He may purify and free the horizon of the world of humanity from this dark cloud.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Lutfu'lláh S. Hakím, 23 November 1914, London, England.


V 16, 31 December 1914
page 243
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"No sane person can at this time deny the fact that war is the most dreadful calamity in the world of humanity"
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Beatrice Irwin, London.
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved daughter!
Thy letter was received and I have written for thy sake this Message.  This article, in answer to thy question, is very important.  Display ye the utmost effort in its publication.
After the declaration of the constitutional regime in Turkey in 1908, by the members of the Committee of the Union and Progress, this prisoner of forty years, travelled and journeyed for three years-from 1910 to 1913-throughout the countries of Europe and the vast continent of America.  Notwithstanding advancement in age with its natural consequences, with a resonant voice I delivered detailed addresses before large conventions and in historical churches.  I enumerated all those principles contained in the Tablets and Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh concerning War and Peace.
About fifty years ago, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed certain Teachings and raised the Song of Universal Peace.  In numerous Tablets and sundry Epistles He foretold, in the most explicit language, the present cataclysmal events; stating that the world of humanity was facing the most portentous danger and asserting categorically that the realization of Universal War was unfortunately inevitable and unavoidable.  For these combustible materials which were stored in the infernal arsenals of Europe would explode by contact with one spark.  Among other things, "the Balkans will become a volcano and the map of Europe will be changed."  For these and similar reasons He (Bahá'u'lláh) invited the world of humanity to Universal Peace.  He wrote a number of Epistles to the kings and rulers and in those epistles He explained the destructive evils of war and dwelt on the solid benefits and nobler influences of Universal Peace.  War saps the foundation of humanity; killing is an unpardonable crime against God, for man is an edifice built by the Hand of the Almighty.  Peace is life incarnate; war is death personified.  Peace is the divine spirit; war is satanic suggestion.  Peace is the light of the world; war is stygian darkness and Cimmerian1 gloom.  All the great prophets, ancient philosophers and heavenly Books
page 244
have been the harbingers of Peace and monitors against war and discord.  This is the Divine foundation; this is the Celestial outpouring; this is the basis of all religions of God.
In short, before all the meetings in the West I cried out:  "O ye thinkers of the world!  O ye philosophers of the Occident!  O ye scholars and sages of the earth!  A threatening black cloud o'ershadows, which ere long shall envelop the horizon of humanity; an impetuous tempest is ahead, which shall shatter to splinters the ships of the lives of mankind, and a turbulent, furious torrent shall soon drown the countries and nations of Europe.  Awaken ye!  Awaken ye!  Become ye mindful!  Become ye mindful!  Thus in the spirit of co-operation we may all arise with the utmost magnanimity and through the Favour and Providence of God hold aloft the flag of the Oneness of Humanity, promote the essentials of Universal Peace and deliver the inhabitants of the world from this Most Great Danger!"
While travelling in Europe and America I met altruistic and sanctified souls who were my confidants and associates concerning the question of Universal Peace and who agreed with me and joined their voices with mine regarding the principle of the Oneness of the World of Humanity; but alas, they were very few!  The leaders of public opinion and the great statesmen believed that the massing of huge armies and the annual increase of military forces insured peace and friendship among nations.  At that time I explained that this theory was based on a false conception; for it is an inevitable certainty that these serried ranks and disciplined armies will be rushed one day into the heat of the battlefield and these inflammable materials will unquestionably be exploded and the explosion will be through one tiny spark; then a world conflagration will be witnessed, the lurid flames of which shall redden all the horizons.  Because the sphere of their thoughts was contracted and their intellectual eyes blind they could not acknowledge the above explanation.
From the beginning of the Balkan Confederation a number of important personages inquired of me whether this Balkan war was the expected universal war, but it was answered, "It will terminate in universal war."
In brief, the point to make clear is this:  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh nearly fifty years ago warned the nations against the occurrence of this "Most Great Danger".  Although the evils of war were evident and manifest to the sages and scholars, they are now made clear and plain to all the people.  No sane person can at this time deny the fact that war is the most dreadful calamity in the world of humanity, that war destroys the divine foundation, that war is the cause of eternal death, that war is conducive to the destruction of populous, progressive cities, that war is the world-consuming fire, and that war is the most ruinous catastrophe and the most deplorable adversity.
The cries and lamentations are raised from every part to the Supreme Apex; the moanings and shriekings have thrown a mighty reverberation through the columns of the world; the civilized countries are being overthrown; eyes are shedding tears, hearing the weeping of the fatherless children; the hearts are burning and being consumed by uncontrollable sobbings and piercing wailings of helpless, wandering women; the spirits of hopeless mothers are torn by rayless
page 245
grief and endless sorrows and the nerve-racking sighs and the just complaints of fathers ascend to the Throne of the Almighty.
Ah me!  The world of creation is totally deprived of its normal rest; the clash of arms and the sound of murderous guns and cannon are being heard like the roaring of thunder across the heavenly tract, and the explosive materials have changed the battlefields into yawning graveyards, burying for eternity the corpses of thousand's upon thousands of youths-the flower of many countries who would have been evolving factors in the civilization of the future.
The results of this crime committed against humanity are worse than whatever I may say and can never be adequately described by pen or by tongue.
O ye governments of the world!  Be ye pitiful toward mankind!  O ye nations of the earth, behold ye the battlefields of slaughter and carnage; O ye sages of humanity, investigate sympathetically the conditions of the oppressed; O ye philosophers of the West, study profoundly the causes that led to this gigantic, unparalleled struggle; O ye wise leaders of the globe, reflect deeply so that ye may find an antidote for the suppression of this chronic, devastating disease; O ye individuals of humanity, find ye means for the stoppage of this wholesale murder and bloodshed.  Now is the appointed time!  Now is the opportune time!  Arise yet show ye an effort, put ye forward an extraordinary power, and unfurl ye the Flag of Universal Peace and dam the irresistible fury of this raging torrent which is wreaking havoc and ruin everywhere!
Although this captive has been in the prison of despotism for forty years, yet he has never been so sad and stricken with regret and grief as in these days.  My spirit is aflame and burning; my heart is broken, mournful, heavy and despondent; my eyes are weeping and my soul is on fire.  Oh!  I am so bowed down and sorrowful.
O people!  Weep and cry, lament and bemoan your fate.  Then hasten ye, hasten ye, perchance ye may become able to extinguish with the water of the new-born ideals of spiritual democracy and celestial freedom, this many-flamed, world-consuming fire, and through your heaven-inspired resolution you may usher in the Golden Era of International Solidarity and World Confederation.
O kind God!  Hearken to the cry of these helpless nations!  O pure Lord, show Thy pity to these orphaned children!  O incomparable Almighty, stop this destructive torrent!  O Creator of the world and the inhabitants thereof, cause the extinction of this burning fire!  O Listener to our cries, come to the rescue of the orphans!  O Ideal Comforter, console the mothers whose hearts are torn and whose souls are filled with the blood of irremediable loss!  O Clement and Merciful, grant the blessing of Thy grace to the weeping eyes and burning hearts of the fathers.  Restore calmness to this surging tempest and change this world-encircling war into Peace and Conciliation.
Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent and the Powerful and, verily, Thou art the Seer and the Hearer!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 4 October 1914, 'Akká, Syria.


V:17, 19 January 1915
page 257
"O thou world of humanity!  Awake!"
Today, if the soul-who is attracted with the Love of God and burning with the flame of enthusiasm-shall unloose his tongue and deliver his speech in the utmost state of attraction, it will undoubtedly produce the most wonderful effect upon the hearts.  With a resonant voice, he must cry out:
O people!  O people!  The Sun of Reality has dawned from the horizon of the world, casting Effulgence upon the East and the West. ...
O thou world of humanity!  Awake!  Awake!
O thou negligent of the Kingdom of God!  Revive!  Revive!
O thou prisoner of nature!  Liberate thyself!  Liberate thyself!
O thou afflicted with antiquated dogmas!  Get clear of superannuated imaginations!  Free thyself of this inertia!
O thou deprived of heavenly bestowals!  Acquire a share!  Acquire a share!
O thou heedless of the Divine World!  Be informed!  Be informed!
Cry at the top of your voices similar utterances in those meetings before the concourse of humanity.  The effect of your words will be conditioned upon the degree of your attraction and exultation.  Then you will observe what an effect this will have.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Extract from Tablet in which the Panama-Pacific International Exposition is mentioned.


V:17, 19 January 1915
page 263
A brief history of the American development of the Bahá'í Movement
Thornton Chase
In the month of June, 1894, a gentleman in Chicago desired to study Sanskrit, in order to further pursue his search into ancient religious teachings.  While seeking an instructor he met a Syrian who had come to Chicago from Egypt a short time before, and who told him of the Bahá'í Movement.
As the statements of the life and teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, and his son, Abbás Effendi, the "Greatest Branch", otherwise known as 'Abdu'l-Bahá, accorded with the declarations of numerous sacred prophecies, and with the age-long expectations of mankind, it was deemed of value to investigate those claims as far as possible.
Other seekers for truth became attracted to the study of these matters, with the result that five accepted the teachings as true during the year 1894.  In 1895 a number of earnest students became interested, classes were formed, and several became "believers", and in 1896, the followers of the Bahá'í Cause in Chicago were numbered by hundreds.
A class of Truth Seekers was begun in Kenosha, Wis., another in Milwaukee, and individuals from New York, Cincinnati, Washington, and other points, came in touch with the Movement in Chicago, and carried information of it to their friends at home, so that in 1898 many students in eastern cities were eagerly seeking knowledge of God through this channel.
On 4 November 1900, there arrived in New York, Mírzá Asadu'lláh, a Persian teacher of authority from 'Akká, in Palestine, and Hájí Hasan-i-Khurásání, a prominent merchant of Cairo, Egypt; with Mírzá Husayn Ruhí, and Mírzá Burzurg, as interpreters.  They remained in New York" meeting and teaching large numbers of people, until 26 November, when they visited Johnstown, New York, for two days, and reached Chicago at 4 p.m., Thanksgiving Day, 29 November, where they made their headquarters for a year and a half.
A little later came another Persian gentleman, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, a scholar and historian, famous in the Orient for his learning and sincerity, one who had given up a position of the highest honour in Persia, as president of the Royal College of Tihrán, to embrace the Bahá'í Cause, which resulted in his imprisonment for three years in Persian dungeons.  Two young Persians, Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán and Mírzá Amín'u'lláh also arrived to act as interpreters.
With these teachers came the first opportunity for a correct and intimate knowledge of the true Bahá'í teachings.  The salient facts,-the mission of the Báb as the forerunner and proclaimer of the coming of "He Whom God Shall Manifest", his life, and early martyrdom; the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh, the Manifestation, and Revealer of the Divine Word, the station and authority of Abbás Effendi, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, as the Centre of the Covenant, the Interpreter and the Establisher of the Sacred Law; these were known and believed; but, as yet, there had been but little translation of their writings, and but a small portion of their beautiful and comprehensive teachings of religion and life was known until they were disclosed by these visitors from the Centre of the Cause.  The young interpreters, assisted by Mr Anton [Antún] Haddád of Syria, busied themselves in translating the Bahá'í Writings from Persian and Arabic into English, and a wonderful treasury of wisdom and knowledge was opened, which has been the delight and satisfaction of thousands of hungry souls in America.
The instructions given by Mírzá Asadu'lláh and Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl were thoroughly sane and practical, and so insisted on righteousness, right living-as the essential of religion, rather than psychic and occult experiments, that many persons, who had conceived views imbued with imaginations and superstitions, fell away from the Cause-but those who remained discovered such spiritual light, guidance, richness, and power in the teachings, that they were deeply confirmed in their belief, and clung to it as the most valuable instruction possible for man to obtain.
The classes and assemblies which had diminished in number, again began to grow, and to spread the knowledge of the Bahá'í Cause; until at the present time its adherents in the United States are numbered by thousands-there are believers in many cities and towns, from the Atlantic to the Pacific-all earnest and sincere in their faith, and in their acceptance of this modern revelation of Divine
page 265
Knowledge, and striving with their lives to carry out the Bahá'í teachings of love to God expressed in love to man.
There are assemblies of believers in Chicago and New York, in Boston and Baltimore, Washington and Philadelphia, in Cleveland, Cincinnati, St. Louis, Milwaukee, Kenosha, Minneapolis, Spokane, Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, and in many towns of lesser fame; in all of which this wonderful, religious, ethical, moral, and practical teaching of the age, is received and loved as the great solvent of religious, social, and economic problems, and the joy and beauty of life.


V:17, 19 January 1915
page 265
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
to the Bahá'ís regarding their attendance at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco.
...
As regards the second trip of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to America, if the believers of God be enkindled and attracted to the superlative degree, perchance this object will again be obtained.  Capacity and capability are the magnetic power.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, 12 March 1913.


V:18, 7 February 1915
page 275
New commands in the Bahá'í religion that are lacking in Christianity
Compiled from "The Brilliant Proof"
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl
What new command is there in the Bahá'í religion which is lacking in Christianity?
Although this question is an abstruse one which cannot be fully comprehended by a person unless he be well versed in the books of the two peoples, yet we will expound it clearly in such a way as to be easily understood by every soul, and we will explain the specific features of this great Movement and prove the necessity of this Most Holy Manifestation for the comfort and upbuilding of the world.  Thus may disinterested persons attain insight and every just one arise in thanksgiving for this great bestowal of God, the All-Glorious.
It is evident to every perceiving soul that the world of humanity will attain perfection, and that happiness and welfare, the desire of nations and goal of all hearts, will be insured when religious differences and sectarianism, the cause of alienation and estrangement of the people, are utterly removed from the world, and all estrangements and schisms, such as racial, patriotic and political divisions, etc., are dispelled from among men.  Thus may men become brothers, loving and kind toward each other.  These terrible wars, which are the greatest catastrophes of humanity and civilization, will disappear.  The vast sums, the expenditure of which is undoubtedly the cause of impoverishing men and destroying the world, will no longer be devoted to destructive pursuits and infernal machinery.  This question is so clear and lucid that the most deficient mind can pass judgement upon it.  Nevertheless this condition has been confirmed by the Divine glad-tidings and established by heavenly prophecies.  For the Holy Books contain explicit record that in the Great Day which has been exalted by various names, such as "the last day", "the time of the end", "the latter day", "the day of the Lord", etc., the Glorious Lord will descend and will unite all nations in the worship of the One God.  He will so train all men in lofty and spiritual qualities that warfare and conflict will be uprooted, rancour and hatred will be replaced by sociability and peace, and implements of war be changed into farming and trading tools.  This is a brief statement of the promises of the prophets concerning the "latter day".
It is self-evident that all nations are awaiting and anticipating the advent of such a Day and the coming of such a great Cause; nay, they pray and supplicate God to hasten its arrival.
But the greatest obstacles among the nations are the signs and conditions which shall appear with this praiseworthy Manifestation and promised Day; for all the Manifestations of God and founders of religion who have formerly come have mentioned the signs of this great event in their respective books and emphasized and clearly recorded them in their utterances.  But every prophet who appeared recorded the self-same signs mentioned by his predecessor and repeated the same words; yet without undertaking to explain the meaning of those signs and conditions or make his object therein known.  For instance, consider how for a thousand years his holiness Moses and the Jewish prophets spoke and uttered glad-tidings to the people of the coming of the Lord of Hosts who would harmonize and unite all in the worship of One God.  Among the signs of the day of His coming announced by them are:
First:  The rolling up of the heavens.
Second:  The sun will be darkened.
Third:  The moons shall not give her light.
Fourth:  The stars shall fall from heaven.
page 276
Fifth:  The dead shall arise from their tombs.
Sixth:  Ferocious animals will make peace with grazing animals.
Seventh:  They will share the same pasture and food.
Eighth:  Children will play with poisonous serpents.
Ninth:  The people of Israel, who in that day shall have become scattered and humiliated throughout all the nations of the East and West, will be again assembled together by the Lord of Hosts, who will establish them in their promised land and confer upon them eternal glory and everlasting dominion.
These are, in short, some of the prophecies which all the Jewish prophets announced to their people and recorded in their books.  They did not state however that these promises were to be taken in a literal sense without symbolism and interpretation, or that the symbolic texts were subject to commentary.
Fifteen hundred years subsequent to the time of His Holiness Moses, the very same promises and signs were revealed by His Holiness Christ-upon whom be glory!  Consider verses 29-31 of the twenty-fourth chapter of St. Matthew and the tenth and eleventh verses, of the third chapter of the Second Epistle of Peter the Apostle, so that you may witness the mention of these promises and signs with the utmost clearness.  Likewise His Holiness Christ and His disciples confined themselves to the mere mentioning of these signs, as was done by the Jewish Prophets, not undertaking to explain their meaning.  Consequently the Christian doctors disagreed in their interpretation of these holy books.  Some said that those promises were literal statements and not subject to interpretation and must therefore be fulfilled outwardly.  Others among the commentators stated that those promises were symbolic and that they were words requiring interpretation in order that their real meaning might thereby become evident; i.e., that the "Seal of the Book" might be opened in the "latter day".  Six hundred years after His Holiness Christ, the "Seal of the Prophets" announced His mission and the very same promises were again revealed in the Qur'án.  The same conditions and signs were identically repeated.  But again the Qur'án made no reference to the meaning intended by those prophecies, nor did it state whether they were symbolic or subject to interpretation.  Consequently, were a man to consider what has been stated he would most clearly find that the greatest obstacles against the unification of nations have been these very prophecies, glad-tidings, conditions and signs.  For the various peoples have been prevented from uniting with each other because the meanings intended by those prophecies were not clear.
Although citing an illustration leads to prolixity,1 yet we will do so for the purpose of enlightening and further elucidating the matter to the reader.  For example, let us assume that a Christian missionary should say to a Jew:  "Dear friend, why are you sleep-
page 277
ing and heedless?  The promised Messiah, whose coming was foretold by all the prophets, has appeared."  Then imagine the Jew answering:  "How splendid!  How splendid!  What beautiful glad-tidings and joyous news!  We Jews have made all our wishes dependent upon the coming of the Messiah and daily supplicate by prayer for His advent!  Now let us see this promised Messiah whom you declare to have appeared."  The Christian missionary answers:  "The promised Messiah was that wronged youth, Jesus of Nazareth, who sacrificed His life for the liberation and salvation of the world."  The Jew would reply:  "O esteemed teacher! clear signs are recorded in the Holy Books regarding the appearance of the Messiah, none of which came to pass.  We Jews have not found our religion so easily that we can relinquish it carelessly.  You consider yourself a teacher of the Holy Books.  See then in the Heavenly Books the words that at the time of the coming of the promised Messiah the sun will be darkened, the moon will turn into blood, the new heaven and the new earth will become manifest, the stars will fall, the dead will arise.  Where and when did these prophecies become fulfilled during the day of the Nazarene and who saw them?  Furthermore, let me show you numerous passages wherein it has been clearly revealed that when the promised Messiah appears He will gather together all the Jews scattered throughout the world and He will save them from the great humiliation, execration and tyranny which they suffer.  Then He will establish them in the Holy Land and confer upon them dominion and eternal glory.  Now tell me when did Jesus of Nazareth accomplish such a thing?  Nay, through his Manifestation the contrary came to pass, for we were established in the Holy Land but we have become scattered through his coming.  We were esteemed; we have become humiliated.  We were assembled; we became dispersed; we were blessed; we became afflicted with curses.  All this was contrary to the promises given to the Jewish people.  So to accept Jesus would be to deny those glorious prophets."
In brief, at this point in the conversation the Christian missionary would fail to answer the Jew.  For he, himself, does not understand the real meaning of these glad-tidings.  How then could he explain them to the Jews and cause them to be convinced and assured?  Therefore during this long period the missionaries of the Christian religion have attempted to discomfit and confound the Jews, yet without traversing the pathway of true knowledge and real proof.  Instead of bringing them near the Gospels, they caused them to be annoyed and further removed.
It is therefore recorded in church history that during this long period, that is, since the conversion of the great Constantine down to our time, both in the days of Charlemagne and during the crusades, they repeatedly attempted to force the Jews to accept Christianity, but in the end they failed.  Now, had they known the meanings of these glad-tidings there would be no need of using force and compulsion.
Similar to this is the attitude of the Muslim toward the Christian.  When the Muslim desires to prove the truth of the mission of the "Seal of the Prophets" to a Christian, he refers the Christian to the signs recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of St. Matthew.  Then that Muslim not understanding the meanings thereof is forced to say that this Gospel in the hands of the Christians is not the original Gospel which descended with Jesus-upon whom be peace!  As you readily see, the Muslims will clearly prove in word and writing that this Gospel has been interpolated by the Christian scholars and that it has been attributed to His Holiness Christ.  In this case the Christian, to whom the reality of the Gospel is evident and manifest, and the love of this Holy Book firmly established in his heart, will be amazed at the incorrect answer of the Muslim.  Instead of fellowship and friendship with the Muslim, the Christian becomes an enemy of the Islamic religion and an opponent of the Muslim people.
In short, one of the great obstacles to the unity of the nations is this difficulty which has been explained by the foregoing illustration.  All these abstruse problems are involved and explained in the statement that because the Christian missionaries do not understand the real meanings of the books of religions which have appeared prior to the manifestation of His Holiness Christ-upon whom be peace!-therefore they cannot guide others to their own religion.  This has become evident and manifest.
As to the religions which have appeared after His Holiness Christ, inasmuch as retrogression and reversal are opposed to natural motion and contrary to the progress and advancement which are evident and manifest in world movements, therefore the Christian cannot turn development backward and cause
page 278
other people to descend the ladder of progress in order to unite them to themselves.  The great man Lord Curzon has partly understood this point when he writes:  "The conversion of Asiatics to the Christian religion is without effect and result."
Now that this subject has been clearly elucidated we will submit that the present state of progress in the world necessitates the Most Great Manifestation.  While His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh resided in Baghdád the first book revealed by Him was Kitáb-i-Íqán which is the key to unlock the seals of the Heavenly Books.  It comprehends the realities revealed in Holy Writ.  By it the doors of the understanding of prophetic words were opened to the faces of the people of Abhá, the real meaning of the Divine Glad-tidings were revealed and the original purposes of such terms as were latent and unknown became manifested.  These terms are:  "Death", "Life", "Heaven", "Earth", "Sun", "Moon," "Stars", "Resurrection", etc.  Thus the means of unity became facilitated and the hindrances to international misunderstandings were removed.  The signs and emblems of accord and agreement among inimical and opposing people became manifest and apparent.  For you observe that while now is but the commencement of the Bahá'í Religion, yet difficult questions and doctrines have become so clearly explained to and so easily accepted by various peoples that numerous souls among Zoroastrians, Jews, Nusayrís, et al., who have never believed in His Holiness Christ nor would listen to a single verse of the Gospel, have now become acknowledged believers in Bahá'u'lláh through the effect of His blessed utterances.  Moreover, they consider His Holiness Christ the Promised Lord and His heavenly Book the Divine Holy Word.  They associate and consort with Christians in their feasts and gatherings with the utmost kindness and fellowship. ...
But let us return to the original question:  "What has Bahá'u'lláh brought which is not found in the Christian religion?"
Although the great function of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh in solving the intricacies of the Heavenly Books, facilitating the removal of differences from among nations and establishing unity and harmony among the sections of the human world is sufficient proof of the greatness and thoroughness of the Bahá'í religion, nevertheless we will now consider the laws and ordinances of this religion, explain their specific virtues, their benefits and good results:
First, a command which is particularly a feature of the Bahá'í religion and is not found in the other religion is "abstaining from crediting verbal traditions".  It is well known to men of learning that it was verbal tradition which divided the Jews into two great sects.  Such traditions are the basis of the book of Talmud, and caused the division of that one nation.  One of the two schisms called the Rabbinim looks upon the teachings of the Talmud as the law which needs to be followed and considers it the greatest means for the preservation and permanence of the Jewish people.  But the other sect, Gharraim, looks upon the Talmud as sheer heresy and conducive to perdition.  Thus these two sects cannot possibly be harmonized or cease mutual opposition.
Similarly in the Christian religion the main cause of schism and division were these verbal traditions which were termed "authoritative".  Each one of the Christian churches, such as the Catholic, the Orthodox, the Jacobite, the Nestorian and others, considers it obligatory to follow these traditions inherited from and handed down by the fathers of the Church, as the very text of the Holy Book.
Thus when in any of the great Councils the question of the unification of the Christian people would be at issue, they would avail themselves of these inherited traditions, which were opposed to union and harmony.  Likewise in the religion of Islám, claiming these verbal traditions which were related of the Founder of that religion, subsequent to his death, was the cause of the division and separation into various of the principal sects, such as the Sunnís, the Shí'ih and the Kharajite, or into the secondary schools of Hanofite, Malakite, Shafite, Haubilite, etc.
Each of these hold to a set of traditions considered as authentic by their own sect.
But Bahá'u'lláh closed to the people of the world this door which is the greatest means for sedition; for He has clearly announced that "in the religion of God all recorded matters are referable to the Book and all unrecorded matters are dependent upon the decision of the House of Justice."  Thus all narrations, relations and verbal traditions have been discredited among the Bahá'í people and the door of dissension, which is the greatest among the doors of hell, has been closed and locked.
page 279
Second:  One of the laws and ordinances peculiar to the Bahá'í religion is the law prohibiting the interpreting of the Word of God.  For interpretation of the Words and exposition of personal opinion has been one of the greatest means of dissension in the former religions, the cause of darkening of the horizon of faith and concealing the real meaning of the Book of God.
It is evident that learned men differ in their minds, and the natural gifts of sagacity and intelligence or the lack of understanding and comprehension vary in degrees among them.  Thus when the door of interpretation and perverting of the Words from their outward meaning is opened, strange opinions and curious contradictory interpretations will result and different sects will arise among the one people and one religious community.
Consequently Bahá'u'lláh has explicitly commanded His followers to wholly abandon the door of interpretation and follow the Words revealed in the Tablets according to their outward meaning, so that the events which have transpired among the past nations should not recur among the Bahá'í people, and the unwelcome happenings which appeared among the various sects due to difference in mentality and viewpoint should not become manifest in this new auspicious day, which is the day of the Glorious Lord.
Thus one of the explicit commands of this great Manifestation is the ordinance abrogating differences which separate men.  It is because one of the occasions of dissension is difference of scholars with regard to the station of the Manifestation of the Cause.  In former religions, even as testified by history, it has become evident that when in a question of this kind a difference has arisen between two of the doctors of religion, both parties were firm in their standpoints and held tenaciously to their sides, while the laity, according to their usage, would adhere some to one and some to the other, thus closing the doors to agreement and unity to such an extent that religious fraternity was changed into deep and bitter enmity, scientific dissension terminating in bloody strife and warfare.  This is illustrated by differences which arose between Arius, the priest, and Alexander, the Bishop of Constantinople, regarding the Trinity; in the fourth century AD; also the Nestorian differences which took place in the fifth century between Nestorians, the Bishop of Constantinople, and the other bishops, which caused terrible wars and the shedding of precious blood.  The effect of these sad dissensions has lasted until the present day.  These are clear proofs and evidences for the point at issue.
Time does not allow us to make mention of the numerous sects and divisions of the Gnostics and others, of which the church historians have counted more than thirty, and incorporated them under the term:  "Born of philosophy".  All seekers of full accounts are referred to authoritative books on the subject, in order that they may clearly realize that all these divisions and sects came from the disagreements of the doctors as to the degree and station of His Holiness Christ, and their persistence in their respective opinions.
Third:  The subject of disagreement by the doctors as to the station of the Manifestation of God has been one of those abstruse and difficult questions to solve which proved beyond the power of great minds and baffled a mighty king like Constantine the Great.  For notwithstanding the assistance and co-operation of the great bishops of the East and West, he could not reconcile the various parties to the Aryan controversy.  Nay, during this long time the power of local councils, the sword of European powers and the verdicts of Inquisitorial Boards failed to remove divisions and schisms caused by metaphysical discussions.  But the removal of this indissoluble knot and incurable disease by the easiest of means has been announced in the holy Bahá'í literature, for Bahá'u'lláh in One of His holy Tablets has clearly revealed the following:  "Since men differ in their degree of knowledge, if two persons should be found to possess different viewpoints as regards the degree and station of the Manifestation of God, both are acceptable before God, for, in accord with the blessed verse:  'Verily, we have created souls different in degrees'; God has created men different in understanding and diverse in manners.  But if those having two points of view engage in conflict and strife while expressing their views, both of them are rejected.  For, by knowing the Manifestation of God it is intended to unify the hearts, cultivate souls and to teach the truth of God, whereas conflict and strife of two persons with two different points of view would do harm to the Cause of God.  Consequently both of them are referred to the fire."  This was the purport of the blessed Tablet in brief.  Accordingly in this Holy Cause no one has power to create disharmony, and because of
page 280
fear of falling, no one dares to persist in his own opinion at the expense of harmony.
Fourth:  Among the specific laws clearly laid down in the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is the law prohibiting slavery.  No mention of this is made in other religions.  As none of the former Heavenly Books has forbidden this traffic all the humanitarian instincts which actuated the Great Powers to abolish and destroy it could not withhold the common people from this abominable practice, which has cost the governments and nations great trouble and expense.  For instance, the freeing of the slaves constitutes one of the important responsibilities of the Egyptian government.  This necessitates a heavy drain upon the state treasury.  Furthermore, the trial and indictment of those guilty of this nefarious traffic brings great affliction and often ruin upon many noted families.
Fifth:  Among the laws peculiar to this Great Cause is the law making it "obligatory upon all to engage in allowable professions as a means of support, and obedience to this law is accepted as an act of worship."  Were a man of insight to consider this strong command, he would testify to the great benefit it contributes towards regulating the affairs of civilization and removing impediments and calamities from human society.  For it is evident, in this present day, that innumerable souls designated as monks, anchorites, hermits, religious devotees, dignitaries and others, although sound in body and limb, abstain from occupation and trade, passing their time in indolence and idleness and living upon the proceeds of other men's labour.  In reality such men are as atrophied limbs upon the body of humanity and a heavy burden to the men of industry and agriculture.  When by a law of religion these innumerable souls abandon idleness and indolence and engage in useful occupations, one can well realize how much this will contribute to the common wealth and remove the difficulties of the body-politic.
Sixth:  The law making the education of children of both sexes compulsory.  This law is also one of the commands explicitly revealed in this most great Cause, and concerning which no mention is made in any of the other religions.  For in the other religions the education of the masses is made dependent upon the law of the government.  If in former times a government would fail to issue a decree providing for compulsory education, and this failure would result in the decadence of learning and knowledge, the nation would take no thought of it, nor would the people consider themselves and the government responsible.  For no law concerning this subject has been revealed in the Heavenly Books.  But when a law is laid down in the Heavenly Book of a nation, every individual member will consider himself bound to execute it, and no one will fail to heed that law, for they will not be dependent upon the government to carry it out.
Seventh:  The command prohibiting cursing and execration and making it obligatory upon all to abstain from uttering that which may
page 281
offend men.  For, as is evident in moral science, cursing, reviling and speaking in harsh words and offensive phrases is one of the greatest causes of alienating hearts, filling minds with rancour, creating hatred and animosity among the peoples and igniting the fire of calamitous warfare among men.  Thus it is said by wise men:  "Verily, war begins in words"; and the poet Firdawsí has said:  "A mere word is the cause of warfare."  Another verse illustrating this point at issue is, "The wound inflicted by the tongue is deeper than that inflicted by the sword."  Were one to ponder over the differences and schisms already spoken of, which arose among the Christian peoples, creating different sects and schools, such as the Aryans, Nestorians, Gnostics, et al., kindling the fire of terrible battlefields and violent calamities, he would clearly find from the testimony of authentic history that the principal and initial cause of such divisions and disasters was the difference of opinion between two religious doctors, which would result in discussion and controversy.  In order to overcome his opponent and demonstrate the correctness of his own view, or because of believing his own opinion correct, each would so persist in his attitude that it would finally lead to harshness towards the other.  This harshness would gradually lead to insinuating remarks and annoying statements which in time would culminate in reviling, execrating, fighting and even bloodshed.  Now the harmful outcome of these religious fights and their evil effect upon human society needs no mentioning here.  For the calamities caused by these differences during the past ages are recorded in the historical books of every nation, and the hardships which have continued down to our time as the painful result of those dissensions are evident to men of understanding.
Perhaps some one may advance an objection saying that ordinances prohibiting anathema and execration are found in the other Heavenly Books, as, for instance, the commands of His Holiness Christ, well-known as the Sermon on the Mount, wherein He most lucidly states, "Whosoever calleth another a fool is in danger of hell-fire."  In the Qur'án it is stated:  "Curse not those who claim (spiritual mission) without the permission of God, thus without knowledge cursing God as an enemy."  The answer to this objection is evident to the people of insight, for such ordinances and prohibitions are considered as educational commands in the estimation of the learned and not as laws and enactments of religion.  Consider this command of the Sermon on the Mount, wherein He states:  "Whosoever is angry with his brother falsely is subject to the law."  Again He says:  "Store not for yourselves treasures"; and again:  "Be not concerned with the morrow."  Also:  "Whosoever smiteth thee on the right cheek turn to him the other also"; and "Whosoever desireth thy garment give him also thy cloak."  Then later on He says:  "Whosoever asks of thee, give unto him, and whosoever would borrow of thee, prevent him not."
It is fully evident that the learned men and doctors of the Christian and Muslim religions have not considered these ordinances as imperative.  Men of intelligence versed in law and jurisprudence have not deemed those who disobeyed these laws deserving of punishment and trial.  Nay, as already mentioned, they have unanimously accounted them educational laws.  Moreover some of those laws are such that the doctors have not considered those slighting them as transgressors or evildoers before God.  For instance, "If anyone smites you upon the one cheek, turn to him the other", "He who begs of you, give to him", "He who seeks to borrow from you, do not refuse him."  The above statement will clearly show why such commands and ordinances were not considered by the leaders of the Christian peoples as imperative and obligatory and why they could not remove cursing and execration from among the community.
But in the Bahá'í religion the commands prohibiting cursing, reviling, swearing and blasphemy have been revealed as imperative and obligatory laws.  The responsibility attaching to the violators has been revealed in various Tablets.  Emphatic commands have been issued in regard to the purity of pen and tongue, prohibiting the writing or speaking of that which will offend men.  For example, although in various Tablets such as the Ishrákhát and others, the law prohibiting cursing and execration has been explicitly laid down, nevertheless Bahá'u'lláh, during His latter days, in the blessed Book of the Covenant fortified and emphasized the above law by addressing the following command to the people of the world:
"O ye people of the world!  I exhort ye towards that which is the cause of the elevation of your station!  Hold fast to the fear of God and adhere to the hem of kindliness!  Verily I say unto you, the.  tongue is for the mention of good; defile it not with unseemly
page 282
words.  Verily God has forgiven the past.  Hereafter all must utter that which is seemly.  Shun anathema, execration and that whereby man is perturbed.  The station of man is great.  Some time ago this lofty word was revealed from the treasury of the Pen of Abhá:  'Today is a great, blessed Day!  That which was latent in man is today revealed and become manifest.  The station of man is great, should he adhere to veracity and truth and remain farm and steadfast iii the Cause.'"
Every intelligent soul who reflects upon this utterance:  "Verily, God has forgiven the past; hereafter all must utter that which is seemly", "Shun anathema, execration and that whereby man is perturbed", will clearly see how emphatic an ordinance has been given forth ratifying the prohibition of anathema and execration.  Because according to the law current among the people of knowledge, the purport of this blessed utterance is an explicit prohibition concerning anathema and execration.
The intended purpose thereof is the unpardonable position of the one who violates this mighty command and decisive blessed ordinance.
In this case, to the people of insight it is evident, manifest and firmly established that the prohibition as regards anathema and execration is an specialized ordinance and one of the particular commandments of this greatest Dispensation.  Thus, through the favour of God the Most High, from the traces of the Supreme Pen, this unseemly action and the ordeals resulting therefrom may disappear from among the people of the world and the glad-tidings recorded in the third verse of the 22nd chapter of the Revelation of St. John concerning the events of the day of Manifestation-namely:  "Hereafter there shall be no more cursing," shall be realized.
Eighth:  Prohibition of the carrying of arms except in time of necessity.  This ordinance is not to be found in other religions, but in the Bahá'í religion it is considered as one of the imperative and essential commands.  The great utility of this law is most evident and manifest.  How many souls who were unable to control excessive anger have given vent to it by the use of arms ready at hand?  If the murderer had not been armed, often after one hour the violence of his anger would have subsided and no crime would have resulted.  These are the minor evil results of carrying arms.  There are other greater evils continually manifested by people who carry arms, which are productive of great revolutions and excessive losses for the government and nations:  The details of this are not in keeping with brevity and are conducive to prolongation, nevertheless the afflictions of the nations and ordeals of the people are evident to men of perception.
Ninth:  The question relative to the necessity of the creation of the House of Justice and institution of National Assemblies and Constitutional Governments.  This command is likewise specialized to this evident religion and is not mentioned in the others.  For under other religions it is possible for despotic governments to be restored and founded, because the love of the permanence, establishment and endurance of religious ordinances and the fear of going contrary to them is so deeply rooted in human souls, by reason of the fear of God, that they would not pass away in a thousand years and would not be superseded except through the renewal of the religion and the reform of laws.
__________
In short, these are some of the especial commands of the Bahá'í religion which the writer of these lines has submitted in accordance with this opportune occasion.  The consideration of brevity has made it necessary to omit the mentioning of other special commandments in this Most Great Dispensation.
Among them are ethics and conditions requisite for a wife's knowledge of her travelling or absent husband.  Another concerns the prohibition of haughtiness and egoism.  Another is a command as to purity of all things, with recommendation and encouragement to observe sanitary measures and cleanliness, and to shun utterly all that tends to filth and uncleanness.  Among them is a command directing the agreement of nations in the abolition of warfare and battles, and the conservation of the conditions of security and peace.  Many such commands exist, the words of amplification and detail of which are beyond the limits of this occasion.  For justice to this most important subject would necessitate the compilation of a large volume and not a short article.  But although the article may assume more lengthy proportion, I am forced, nevertheless, to remind the people of knowledge of one distinguishing feature of the many in the Bahá'í religion-perchance the radiant sight (insight) may attain to the great bestowal of this Most Supreme Cause, and the pure tongue may utter thanksgiving and praise to God, the Blessed, the Sublime!
page 283
It is this:  One of the abstruse problems of social philosophy is the prevention of monopoly and wealth control by certain individuals.  This subject has been discussed by the philosophers of the world for many years.  The wise men of Europe and America, especially the Socialists, in endeavouring to solve this abstruse problem, have entered into minute discussion and deep analyses.  The governments of Europe and America have given the subject exhaustive attention; nevertheless they have not yet agreed upon any opinion and have not reached a consensus of remedy for the solution of this seemingly insurmountable question.
But if a soul should ponder and reflect upon the Divine institution concerning the question of heritage and the modus operandi of the distribution of legacies among heirs according to the laws of this Dispensation, he will see that this all-important problem has been solved in the simplest manner.  The distribution of wealth among the nations has been established according to the best method.
Inasmuch as the matter of death among mankind is an unavoidable event, if the distribution of the estate left by those who ascend to God should be effected according to this Divine recommendation, it will be impossible for wealth to be accumulated by the few or for any particular family to exercise a monopoly, leaving others deprived and afflicted by poverty and want.  For the Mighty Lawgiver has dealt with this important affair in this manner:  He has divided the heirs of the deceased into seven classes, including teachers, who are the spiritual fathers of enlightened individuals in the world of humanity.  The heritage is divided according to the number 2,520, which is the lowest number comprising the integral fractions of nine.  Under this division the seven classes eligible to legacies are as follows:  First:  Offspring.  Second:  Wives.  Third:  Fathers.  Fourth:  Mothers.  Fifth:  Brothers.  Sixth:  Sisters.  Seventh:  Teachers.  The nearest relatives are arranged the closest.  Each class receives its due according to the number sixty, which runs down through all.  He has decreed that these seven classes mentioned will come equally into possession of their legitimate rights, each receiving his share from this division.
When the people of insight reflect upon that which has been recorded they will see that with this command in operation, wealth will never be monopolized by a limited few and no individual through sheer forceful skill will come into possession of another's wealth.  Wealth will always be in circulation among all.  All mankind will inherit from one another and all will be benefited by this capital. ...
__________
Now, in regard to the question of features distinguishing this Great Cause from other laws and religions of the people of the world in all centuries and ages:  If fair-minded and intelligent men of knowledge should ponder and reflect upon the judicious laws of the Lord of mankind, they will no doubt bear witness to the perfection of Divine Providence in the laws thus instituted.  For instance, these three firm and irrefutable ordinances, namely, first:  the question of heritage by which monopoly of wealth will be removed and the question of socialism solved; second:  the question of universal peace and international agreements regarding disarmament and conserving expenditure now devoted to implements of war; third:  the question of all being commanded to acquire a profession, art or trade whereby they may earn a living, thus lightening the burden of expense to those upon whom it falls, such as farmers, labourers, et al.  This expense is created by the idlers and unemployed members of the human family.
These fair-minded and intelligent men will also testify that the readjustment of the world and the salvation of mankind from great dangers is conditioned upon following the commands of this Most Great Manifestation.  Thus will they utter the blessed words:  "Blessed is God, the Possessor of the Dominion and the Kingdom!"
__________
To all people of insight it is evident that in this Most Great Cause all the means of comfort for the nation have been provided and a plan of readjustment of the affairs of the people of the world from all standpoints established.


V:19, 2 March 1915
page 295
Tablets to Daniel Jenkyn1
Through his honour Mírzá 'Alí-Akbar-i-Rafsanjání, to his honour Mr Daniel Jenkyn.
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art confirmed by the Divine Spirit!
A thousand times bravo because thou didst forego the physical comfort and rest in order to proclaim the glad-tidings of the heavenly illumination.  Thou didst gird up the loins of service and travelled to Holland to diffuse the Fragrances of God.  Shouldst thou realize how blessed is this trip, unquestionably thou wouldst not rest for one moment, and uninterruptedly thou wouldst engage in the promotion of the Cause of the Almighty.  Thou didst well to hasten from London to Holland.
With his heart and spirit 'Abdu'l-Bahá was thy guide and companion.  Although in body he was far, yet in spirit he was near.  I hope from the bestowals of the Lord of Hosts, His Holiness the Promised One, that this voyage may assume the importance of the voyage of Peter and Paul when the latter went to Antioch.  Consider that important results that voyage had.  Now the results of thy journey will be greater than that.  Know thou this of a certainty.  Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 19 November 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.
__________
Through Áqá Mírzá Lutfu'lláh Hakím, London, to Mr Daniel Jenkyn.
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art attracted to the Truth!
Many of the philosophers of the world and the great men of different nations wished to attain the Truth, but they were deprived.  Then praise thou God that thou hast reached to the essence of the Truth and thou hast heard the proclamation of the Kingdom and the teachings of the Lord of Hosts.  Through this great favour thou hast prospered and become victorious.
I pray, on thy behalf, that thou mayest become the proclaimer of God in that city, that thou mayest awake the sleepers and warn the negligent; that thou mayest become lighted like a torch and bestow the light of guidance,
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


V:19, 2 March 1915
page 296
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"Concerning the question whether all souls enjoy eternal life"
To his honour Mr Remey-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art rejoiced by the Divine Glad-tidings!
Verily I have received thy last letter, and thanked God that thou didst reach Paris protected and guarded by Him.  Thank thou God that He assisted thee to behold the brilliant faces of the believers of God, and favoured thee to meet them in American countries; for verily, beholding those shining countenances is a divine gift.  By it, the hearts are dilated, the souls are rejoiced, and the spirits are attracted toward the Supreme Concourse.
Do not lament over the departure of my dearly-beloved Breakwell.1  For verily, he has ascended to the luminous Rose-Garden in the Abhá Kingdom, near the mercy of his Lord, the Almighty, and is crying out with the loudest voice, "O that my people knew how my Lord hath forgiven me, and made me one of those who have attained to the meeting of God!"
__________
[For passage regarding Thomas Breakwell, see Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 187-9.]
__________
Convey my greeting to the attracted maid-servant of God, Mrs Jackson and announce to her the bounty of God and tell her:  "Do not haste, neither be thou restless.  Soon, verily, all the problems shall be solved (literally:  every knot shall be untied), and God shall unfold a spacious door, and the purpose shall be attained."
[For passage titled "Eternal life", refer to Bahá'í World Faith, pp. 387-8.]
Verily, I beseech God to make thee confirmed under all circumstances.  Do not become despondent, neither be thou sad.  Ere long, thy Lord shall make thee a sign of guidance among mankind.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 3 May 1906, Washington, D.C.


V:19, 2 March 1915
page 297
Letter from Mrs May Maxwell to Mr Charles Mason Remey
Montreal, Canada, 3 December 1913.
Dear Bahá'í brother,
... Regarding Thomas Breakwell, you will remember the year and the month that he came to me in Paris when I was staying with Mrs Jackson.  I do not remember the date but I remember all the facts.
Early in the spring my mother had written to 'Abdu'l-Bahá asking permission for me to leave Paris when she and my brother would be leaving to spend the summer in Brittany.  A Tablet had come in reply in which this permission was refused and 'Abdu'l-Bahá said as far as it was possible, not to absent myself
page 298
from Paris at all.  Then Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl wrote explaining the circumstances to him and asking for permission for me to leave.  But the time came for my mother and brother to leave the city and the permission had not yet come.  They closed the apartment and I went to stay with Mrs Jackson.
During that month I spent in Paris we had wonderful meetings, Mons. Dreyfus and others received the teachings at that time.  I had known, the previous winter, a Mrs Milner who was a friend of Lillian James.  She had gone to America and returned and on the steamer coming back she had met Thomas Breakwell.  She had told him nothing of the teachings, but had spoken of me as a special friend in Paris, whom she wished to have him meet, and the day after they arrived in Paris, she brought him to my little apartment at Mrs Jackson's.  I shall never forget opening the door and seeing him standing there.  It was like looking at a veiled light.  I saw at once his pure heart, his burning spirit, his thirsty soul, and over all was cast the veil which is over every soul until it is rent asunder by the power of God in this day.  As I opened the door, Mrs Milner said "he was a stranger and she took him in," then when we were seated she told me that he was a young Englishman who had been living in the southern states of America and that he was a Theosophist.  He stayed a short time.  As he was leaving, he said that Mrs Milner had told him that I had received some teachings which had had a great effect on my life and although he was only going to be in Paris a few days, he would like to call to see me and hear what I could tell him.  We made an appointment for the following morning and then he left.  At the appointed hour next day he arrived, his eyes shining, his face illumined, his voice vibrating under the stress of great emotion.  He looked at me very intently and then said:  "I have come to you to help me.  Yesterday after I left you, I walked alone down the boulevard and suddenly some great force nearly swept me off my feet.  I stood still as though awaiting something and a voice announced to me distinctly 'Christ has come!'"  Then he said, "What do you think this means?"  Then I gave him the Message and teachings from the beginning and the veil that I had seen over him disappeared.  He was like a blazing light.  Such was his capacity, that he received the Message in all its fullness and all its strength and beauty within three days and on the third day he wrote his supplication to 'Abdu'l-Bahá which in its force and simplicity I have never seen equalled:  "My Lord!  I believe; forgive me.  Thy servant, Thos. Breakwell."
That evening I went to the rue du Bac to get my mail and found a cablegram which had just arrived, saying, "You may leave Paris" Signed "'Abbás".  When, the next day, my heart filled with gratitude, I joined my mother and brother beside the sea and told my mother all that had happened, she burst into tears and said, "You have a wonderful Master."
I could write you pages about the beloved Thomas Breakwell; of the fire of love burning in his heart when he returned from 'Akká, of his penetrating spiritual power in our midst, of the light of servitude and sacrifice which burned so brilliantly in his soul; but you know all this even better than I.  I only want to add that his kindness and love to my mother during those days in Paris produced a great effect on her and that he was always a joy and a consolation to her during that period of her life before she understood the glory of this Cause.  I have always felt that Thomas Breakwell was the first of the Paris believers to receive the confirmation of the Holy Spirit and the fire of the Love of God.
I am yours in servitude to the Centre of the Covenant!
May Maxwell


VI:6, 24 June 1915
page 43
"The worst enemies of the Cause are in the Cause"
Utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in answer to questions asked by Dr Edward C. Getsinger during a few brief meetings at Haifa, Syria, 26 January to 5 February 1915, and recorded by Dr Getsinger at the time.
No obstacle should be placed before any soul which might prevent it from finding the truth.  Bahá'u'lláh revealed his directions, teachings, and laws, so that souls might know God, and not that any utterance might become an obstacle in their way.
Holding to the letter of the law is many times an indication of a desire for leadership.  One who assumes to be the enforcer of the law shows an intellectual understanding of the Cause, but that spiritual guidance in them is not yet established.
The alphabet of things is for children, that they may in time use their reasoning powers.  "Following the spirit" is a guidance by and through the heart, the prompter of the spirit.  The Pharisees were extremely orthodox, holding strictly to the law.  They were the cause of the condemnation and ultimate crucifixion of Jesus.
Several times tablets have been written to some friends regarding a small detail in the work of the Cause, which they might attend to, such as reporting
page 44
about Azalís, náqidín1, et al., and now we hear that such tablets are used as a proof of their authority over the friends in those regions.  Although the books and writings of Abu'l-Fadl are used in many countries as text books, never did he even give a sign that he was an authority on any subject, consequently the gifts of God ever increased upon him, since he bore all honours in humility, until he attained to the supreme nearness.
The ones in real authority are known by their humility and self-sacrifice and show no attitude of superiority over the friends.
Some time ago a tablet was written stating that none are appointed to any authority to do anything but to serve the Cause as true servants of the friends-and for this no tablet is necessary; such service when true and unselfish, requires no announcement, nor following, nor written document.
Let the servant be known by his deeds, by his life!
To be approved of God alone should be one's aim.
When God calls a soul to a high station, it is because that soul has capacity for that station as a gift of God, and because that soul has supplicated to be taken into His service.  No envies, jealousies, calumnies, slanders, plots, nor schemes, will ever move God to remove a soul from its intended place, for by the grace of God, such actions on the part of the people are the test of the servant, testing his strength, forbearance, endurance and sincerity under adversity.  At the same time those who show forth envies, jealousies, etc., toward a servant, are depriving themselves of their own stations, and not another of his, for they prove by their own acts that they are not only unworthy of being called to any station awaiting them, but also prove that they cannot withstand the very first test-that of rejoicing over the success of their neighbour, at which God rejoices.  Only by such a sincere joy can the gift of God descend unto a pure heart.
Envy closes the door of Bounty, and jealousy prevents one from ever attaining to the Kingdom of Abhá.
No!  Before God!  No one can deprive another of his rightful station, that can only be lost by one's unwillingness or failure to do the will of God, or by seeking to use the Cause of God for one's own gratification or ambition.
No one save a severed soul or a sincere heart finds response from God.  By assisting in the success of another servant in the Cause does one in reality lay the foundation for one's own success and aspirations.
Ambitions are an abomination before the Lord.
How regrettable!  Some even use the affairs of the Cause and its activities as a means of revenge on account of some personal spite, or fancied injury, interfering with the work of another, or seeking its failure.  Such only destroy their own success, did they know the truth.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá is the interpreter of the aims, intents, and purposes of the Words of the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh) and is the interpreter of his own written words, and none can say that this or that is the intention conveyed therein, save 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The spirit of unity exists in the Divine Words, and one who interprets them in such wise as to create a division and discord is indeed one who errs.
Were not the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh one adaptable to the entire world and its diverse nations, it could not be a unique and universal Revelation, but its elasticity adapts itself to all conditions, and its spirit is one that moulds itself into every vehicle and need for the accomplishment of the divine plan of unity.
page 45
But when some follow merely the hard and fixed letter of the law, they deprive it (the Revelation) of its elastic quality-the spirit-and endeavour to convert it into a hard instrument of inflexible qualities.
__________
In this day every one must be tested, as the time of the "chosen ones" to prove their worth is indeed very short.  The day of attainment is drawing to a close for them.  The "first fruits" must be ripened in spirit, mellowed in love, and consumed by their self-sacrifice and severance.  None other are acceptable as first fruits, and all who fail to attain to the standard through the tests, are relegated to the "many who are called".
The more one is severed from the world, from desires, from human affairs, and conditions, the more impervious does one become to the tests of God.  Tests are a means by which a soul is measured as to its fitness, and proven out by its own acts.  God knows its fitness beforehand, and also its unpreparedness, but man, with an ego, would not believe himself unfit unless proof were given him.  Consequently his susceptibility to evil is proven to him when he falls into the tests, and the tests are continued until the soul realizes its own unfitness, then remorse and regret tend to root out the weakness.
The same test comes again in greater degree, until it is shown that a former weakness has become a strength, and the power to overcome evil has been established.
__________
Blessed are they who are the means of making unity among the friends, and pity on those who in the right or wrong are the cause of discord.  For instance:  When one is in the right in a case in dispute, and his minority prevents him from establishing this rightful matter, instead of agitating the subject, if he will humbly submit to sacrifice his position for the sake of unity and peace, God will accept that sacrifice and ere long the rightful matter will be established without any further dispute, by the Divine assistance; whereas without such sacrifice and submissiveness great harm might ensue.
The friends must be prepared to efface themselves at all times.  Seeking the approval of men is many times the cause of imperilling the approval of God.
__________
The worst enemies of the Cause are in the Cause and mention the Name of God.  We need not fear the enemies on the outside for such can be easily dealt with.  But the enemies who call themselves friends and who persistently violate every fundamental law of love and unity, are difficult to be dealt with in this day, for the mercy of God is still great.  But ere long this merciful door will be closed and such enemies will be attacked with a madness.
__________
It has been a long time since letters have been received from the friends.  Everything is first read by the censor, and all tablets likewise submitted to him, and as my mail alone would keep him very busy, we make no effort to trouble him.  Tell Ahmad Yazdí not to send any more mail to me under any circumstances.
__________
Indeed, I contemplate no journey, for who would look after the poor should I leave here to travel to America or elsewhere?
__________
If you knew what great things would happen to the Cause after my departure, you would pray every day and night for my release and demise.


VI:7, 13 July 1915
page 51
Bahá'í martyrdoms in Persia
Extracts from letters from Dr Susan I. Moody and Dr Arastú, Tihrán, Persia.
Áqá Shaykh 'Alí-Akbar-i-Qúchaní, a noted Bahá'í teacher, was murdered in Mashhad last April.  The assassin shot him in the back and the body lay where it fell in the bazaars for some days.  The animosity against the Bahá'ís had reached the point where none dared to move it for fear of a general slaughter.  A photograph of fifty Bahá'ís was posted in the bazaars and they were boycotted in all the shops.
A few days ago news reached Tihrán from Qúchaní that the wife of the martyr has died in childbed; the child also died.  No midwife would attend her, nor would a Muslim prepare the bodies for burial.  It was forbidden to bring them to the graveyard, so the grandmother washed the bodies and had them buried in, their own garden.
The original of the photograph sent herewith was given me by Shaykh 'Alí Akbar while he was sojourning in Tihrán three years ago.
His martyrdom is foretold by the beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the tablet of which I am enclosing both Persian and English copies.  Persistent effort is being made to bring the murderer to justice.
Susan I. Moody
__________
... The wife of Áqá Shaykh 'Alí Akbar, the martyr, had three or four children, and she herself was very learned.  Consider how much the enemies have added to their oppression and tyranny toward the Bahá'ís.  All the Bahá'ís are scattered from Khurásán and are distressed and wandering. ...  Also from Zavareh, which is a city near Isfahán, a great number of the Bahá'ís have come to Tihrán after all their property had been taken. ...
We have no remedy save to be patient and pray on behalf of the oppressors.  May God awaken them!
Dr Arastú, through Mírzá Lutfu'lláh, London, England.


VI:7, 13 July 1915
page 51
Tablet revealed for Shaykh 'Alí Akbar
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
O thou firm one in the Covenant!
Thy letter addressed to his honour Mírzá Haydar 'Alí was noted and from its contents regret was experienced because our intention was to prepare the means of tranquillity; now it has produced difficulties and you are greatly troubled; but as these troubles are in the path of God it is in reality a favour and will have great results.
Since this is so, it is better that with the utmost cheerfulness and happiness you bid farewell to the friends (saying):  I am going on a journey to teach that perchance I may be confirmed in servitude and perhaps the cup of martyrdom
page 52
may overflow.  As in this region the giving up of life is not attainable, therefore it is necessary to hasten to other parts.
Then go to Ishqábád and a letter will be written to Hadrátí Afnán to prepare the necessities of the journey to send you to Isfahán because in Isfahán the people are crying aloud for teachers and I hope that you may attain to a great and distinguished service on this journey.  From Isfahán you may hasten to Ábádih and Shíráz and from there to the shores of the Persian gulf and the journey may be ended at the blessed tomb.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Valí'u'lláh Khán-i-Varqá, 28 May 1915, Tihrán.


VI:8, 1 August 1915
page 62
"The Will of the Creator is effected through the process of (voluntary) composition"
Scientific proof of the existence of God.
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered Sunday, 9 February 1913, at 30 rue St. Didier, Paris.
[See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 412-5, for a similar Talk.]
Translated from notes in Persian by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Today some one asked a question regarding the existence of God.
What are the proofs through which one can establish the existence of God?
People are divided into two sections, one which is satisfied with the knowledge of the attributes of divinity, and the other which strives to establish the existence of divinity, and be informed of the fundamental principles of divine philosophy.
Therefore today I will speak to you of the proofs which establish scientifically the existence of God.
I will not quote to you the scriptural proofs from the Old and the New Testament or the Qur'án, for you are more or less familiar with those ideas.  Consequently I will deal with this subject from an intellectual standpoint.  As it is an abstruse subject I request you to give your utmost attention.
When we look upon all forms of phenomena we observe that they are the results of composition.  For example, certain single atoms are brought together through the inherent law of elective affinity existing between these various particles, the result of which is the human being.  A number of primordial atoms have gone into the make up of a plant, the result of which is the flower.
Again looking into the mineral kingdom we observe that this law of cohesion is working in the same manner in that kingdom, for we see that many atoms go into the composition of a piece of stone which through purification may reach to the state of a mirror.
page 63
In short, the existence, of life depends upon the composition and decomposition of phenomena.  When the particles of a given composition are disintegrated this may be called non-existence, but the original simple atoms will go back to their primary elements and are ever existent.
For instance, the body of man being the resultant factor of the composition of these atoms, when this body becomes the subject of decomposition we call that death, but those atoms of which the body of man was composed, being simple and primordial, are indestructible.  Consequently it is proved that the existence of phenomena depends upon composition and their mortality upon decomposition.
This is a scientific principle; science approves of it, because it is not a matter of belief.  There is a great difference between theories upheld by belief, and facts which are substantiated by science.
Beliefs are the susceptibilities of conscience, but scientific facts are the deductions of reason and inexorable logic.
Therefore it is logically proven that the existence of phenomena depends upon composition, and their destruction upon disintegration.
Now going back to our subject and the facts upheld by materialists.  They state that inasmuch as it is proven and upheld by science that the life of phenomena depends upon composition and their destruction upon disintegration, then where comes in the need or necessity of a Creator-the self-subsistent Lord?
For we see with our own eyes that these infinite beings go through myriads of compositions and in every composition appearing under a certain form showing certain characteristic virtues, then we are independent of any divine maker.
This is the argument of the materialists.  On the other hand those who are informed of divine philosophy answer in the following terms:
Composition is of three kinds:
1.  Accidental composition.
2.  Involuntary composition.
3.  Voluntary composition.
There is no fourth kind of composition.  Composition is restricted to these three categories.
If we say that composition is accidental, this is philosophically a false theory, because then we have to believe in an effect without a cause, and philosophically no effect is conceivable without a cause.  We cannot think of an effect without some primal cause, and composition being an effect, there must naturally be a cause behind it.
As to the second composition, i.e., the involuntary composition.  Involuntary composition means that each element has within it as an inherent function this power of composition.  For example, certain elements have flowed towards each other, and as an inherent necessity of their being they are composed.  That is, it is the imminent need of these elements to enter into composition.
For example, the inherent quality of fire is burning or heat.  Heat is an original property of fire.
Humidity is the inherent nature of water.  You cannot conceive of H20, which is the chemical form of water, without having humidity connected, for that is its inherent quality, inseparable and indivisible.
Now as long as it is the inherent necessity of these elements to be composed, there should not be any decomposition.  While we observe that after each composite organism, there is a process of decomposition we learn that the composition of the organisms of life is neither accidental nor involuntary.  Then what have we as a form of composition?  It is the third, that is the voluntary composition.  And that means that the infinite forms of organisms are composed through a superior will, the eternal will, the will of the living and self-subsistent Lord.
page 64
This is a rational proof, that the Will of the Creator is effected through the process of composition.
Ponder over this carefully.  When you comprehend the significances of this subject you will then be able to convey it to others.  The more you think over this the greater will be your comprehension.
Thank God that He has given you such a power through which you can comprehend these divine mysteries.  Reflect deeply, ponder carefully, think minutely, and then the doors of knowledge shall be opened unto you.


VI:9, 20 August 1915
page 65
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to be read by the friends of God in the East and the West
Translated 4 August 1908
Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye people of the Kingdom of Abhá!
There are two influences tending toward prosperity and progress which emanate from the forefront of advancement of the world of humanity.  They remind the negligent, awaken them that sleep, give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, power of utterance to the mutes and life to the dead.
One is the influence of civilization-that development of the world of nature that concerns the material life of man.  It promotes physical advancement and cultivates the social virtues.  The laws and deductions of science, so indispensable to progress, are the product of the lofty thoughts of sound minds, the accumulated results of the efforts of ancient and modern scholars.  The most effective power for the promotion and dissemination of this influence is just government.
The other is the divine influence, the holy and spiritual revelations, which insure eternal glory, everlasting happiness, the illumination of the world, the appearance of merciful phenomena in the world of humanity, and perpetual life.  The fundamental basis thereof is the teachings and the precepts of the prophets, the dictates and attraction of the conscience, which belong to the realm of morality.  Like unto the lamp they illuminate and brighten the depths and recesses of human realities.  The effective power of this is the Word of God.
But the advancement of civilization, material perfections and human virtues will bear no fruit or result unless joined to the spiritual perfections; merciful qualities and sound morals, and the happiness of the human world, which is the original goal, will not be attained.  For although through the advancement of civilization and the adornment and refinement of the material world, happiness is realized, and the sight of hopes fulfilled in perfect beauty wins the heart, yet, concomitantly, great dangers, severe ordeals and awful catastrophes are involved.
Now, when ye behold the order and regularity of countries, cities and villages, the attractive adornment, the del-
page 66
icacy of the blessings, the suitability of implements, the ease of transportation and travelling, the extension of knowledge of the facts of the world of nature, the great inventions and gigantic undertakings and the fine and artistic discoveries, ye shall say that civilization is the cause of happiness and the development of the human world.
Yet again, when ye glance over the inventions of infernal instruments of destruction, the creation of the forces of ruin, the discovery of fiery means which cut at the root of life, it becomes plainly evident that civilization is twin with savagery and a concomitant thereof, unless material civilization be aided by divine guidance, merciful appearance, heavenly thoughts, and become joined to the spiritual states, the perfections of the kingdom (of God) and the divine bounties.
Now consider how the most civilized and populous countries of the world have become storehouses of infernal articles (guns, etc.), the dominions of the world a great barracks, the nations of the world armed hosts, and the kings thereof commanding generals of the battlefield.  Thus hath the human world fallen into a great calamity!
Therefore this civilization and material development must be led by the Great Guidance; the mundane world must be made the place for the appearance of the bounties of the kingdom; material advancement must be made twin with merciful revelation.  Thus may the human world appear as the representative of the (heavenly) assembly on the plane of existence, and the exposition of divine evidence may reveal itself in the greatest sweetness and loveliness.  Thus may eternal happiness and glory find realization.
Praise be to God!  For centuries and cycles the banner of civilization has been raised, the human world has day by day advanced and developed, the material world has flourished and outward perfections increased until now the world of human existence has attained great capacity for the spiritual teachings and the divine summons.
To illustrate:  When a suckling babe has passed through the material grades and has attained physical growth and development, the body reaches the grade of maturity and attains capacity for the manifestation of ideal perfections and intellectual virtues.  Then the signs of the endowment of perception, intelligence and knowledge, and the spiritual forces appear.
Likewise in the general world, when mankind accomplished physical development, travelled through the grades of civilization and attained the human wonders, virtues and endowments in their most consummate form, it attained capacity for the appearance and extension of the spiritual divine perfections and obtained worthiness for hearing the divine summons.
Then the ensign of the Kingdom was raised, spiritual virtues and perfections became manifest, the sun of reality arose, the light of the "Most Great Peace" dawned, the solidarity of the human world was realized.  We hope that the radiation of these lights may day by day become intensified and these ideal virtues magnified.  Thus may the great achievement of the human world become evident and manifest, and the beloved of the love of God may become with the utmost sweetness and beauty the representatives of the (heavenly) assemblage.
O ye friends of God!  Know ye verily that the happiness of the world of humanity is dependent upon the unity and solidarity of mankind, and that material and spiritual progress both rest upon universal friendliness and love among human individuals.
Consider other living beings; that is to say the animals that graze, or fly, and those that are ferocious.  The individual of every ferocious kind is separated from its kin and the members of the same species, and lives in loneli-
page 67
ness.  They exercise the utmost opposition and ferocity towards each other.  When they chance to meet they immediately engage in contention and fighting, and use their claws and sharpen their teeth by ferocity, such as atrocious lions or bloodthirsty wolves.  Thus do the ferocious animals that live solitary and fight for their living.
But as to the tame, domestic animals of good nature and pure temperaments, such as those that fly and those that graze, they associate with each other with the utmost love, and company by company they live together.  They spend their time in the greatest happiness, joy and gladness.  The thankful birds which are content with a few grains, practice the utmost joyousness towards one another and sing myriads of melodies upon the pleasant plains, mountains and valleys.  Likewise the animals that graze, like the sheep, deer and rabbit; live in a state of greatest friendliness, and fellowship with happiness and unity in the pasturage of the green tablelands.  But the dogs, wolves, tigers and the bloodthirsty hyenas and other ferocious animals shun each other and wander lonely after their prey.  Even when the animals that graze and fly come to each other's nest or den, there is no opposition and estrangement manifested, nay rather they treat one another with the utmost friendliness and affection.  On the contrary, when a ferocious animal approaches the den of one of its kind, the two engage in contention.  Even if one passes through the neighbourhood of the other, it is at once attacked and if possible destroyed.
Therefore it becomes evident that friendliness and love even in the animal kingdom are the result of good nature, pure temperament and gentle behaviour; while discord and estrangement characterize the ferocious brutes of the plains.
The almighty God has not created in man the claws and teeth of the lion; nay the human existence is made and fashioned after the best form and for the most consummate innate virtues.  Therefore it behoves man in homage for this creation and gratitude for this bestowal that he should exercise friendship and love for his kind, nay more, he should treat all living beings with justice and equity.
Again consider that the comfort, joy, rest and happiness of mankind come from love and unity; that contentions and disputes are the greatest causes of distress, misery, tribulation and unhappiness.  But a thousand times alas! that humanity is ignorant and negligent concerning these matters, and every day becomes metamorphosed into the character of a savage animal, one day a ferocious tiger, again a coiling and repulsive serpent.
The sublimity of man is derived from the qualities and virtues which characterize the angels of the supreme concourse.  Therefore when good qualities and virtuous attributes appear in man, he is verily a heavenly personage, an angel of the kingdom, a divine reality, a merciful manifestation.  And when he does contend and thirst for blood, he exceeds in ferocity the basest of brutes, for while the bloodthirsty wolf will devour one sheep in the night, in that time man will make away with a thousand victims.
For man has two aspects:  one the sublimity of nature and intellectual qualities, and the, other the base animality and imperfections of passion.
If you travel through the continents and countries of the world, you will see, on one side, the signs of ruin and destruction and, on the other, the signs and monuments of civilization and construction.  As to the ruin and destruction, they are the signs of contention and discord, of war and battle.  But order and construction are the results of the virtues of friendliness and concord.
If one travel in the central desert of Asia, he will observe how many cities as great and populous as Paris or London have been ruined.  From the Cas-
page 68
pian Sea to the River Oxus naught is to be seen save forlorn and deserted prairies and deserts.  The Russian railway (the Trans-Caspian R. R.) takes two days and two nights to traverse the ruined cities and destroyed villages of that desert.  There was a time when that land was very populous and in the highest state of civilization and development; science and knowledge were widespread, the arts and professions established, commerce and agriculture were in the utmost state of perfection, and civil government and politics well organized.  Now, all this great region is the habitation of desolation and shelters only the nomadic Turkoman tribes and the wandering beasts of prey.  The cities of that land, as Gorgan, Tassa, Abiavard and Shahrastan, were once famous in the world for sciences, knowledge, professions, wonders, wealth, greatness, happiness and virtue.  Now, no voice or murmur is to be heard in all that land save the roar of ferocious brutes, and naught to be seen save the wandering wolves.
This ruin and destruction was occasioned by the battles and murders of the wars between Írán (Persia) and Turkan1, which had become different in customs and religion.  Their godless leaders made public property of the blood, the belongings and the privacy of each other.  This is the exposition of one instance.
Then, when you travel through the world and observe it, you shall find all constructiveness and progressiveness to be signs of friendliness and love, and all destructiveness and ruin the results of hatred and enmity.
Notwithstanding this obvious fact the human world does not take warning nor wale up from its sleep of negligence.  Men still engage in discord and contention; they organize armed forces and long to charge on the battlefield.
Again, consider organization and decomposition, existence and non-existence.  Every being is composed of many different constituents, the existence of everything is the expression of organization.  That is to say:  when by divine genesis organization of certain elements occurs, a being is produced.  All existent beings are after this fashion.  But when a defect appears in that compound and decomposition sets in, the parts separate and that being disintegrates and becomes non-existent.  Thus annihilation of
page 70
things is an expression of their decomposition and disintegration.  The affinity and organization of the elements makes possible the existence.
To sum up:  the attraction and affinity of things are the cause of fructification and production, and estrangement and disunion among things the cause of death and annihilation.  By attraction, and affinity all living beings such as plants, animals and men are realized.  From disagreement and estrangement dissolution results and annihilation follows.  Verily the life of the human world is that which is conducive to unity, attraction and concord of mankind.
When you pass a farm and observe a prosperous plantation with symmetry and beauty, full of plants and flowers with an organized community, ye see proof of the fact that the farm and garden are under the care and cultivation of a skilful farmer; but if ye see confusion and disorder, it is an evidence that the place is bereft of the care of the gardener and a wild and uncultivated plantation results.
Therefore it is evident that unity and concord are the result of the education of the real educator, while separation and dissension are evidence of savagery and the lack of the training of God.
If an opponent object, saying:  The nations, peoples, tribes and sects of the world have different ethics, morals, conducts, tastes and temperaments and their thoughts and opinions vary, how then can real unity become realized or absolute accord among humanity be established?
We will say that difference (or disagreement) is of two kinds:  One sort is the cause of annihilation and that is like the disagreement of warring nations and fighting tribes who destroy one another, ruin homes and cause comfort and peace to depart, exhibiting ferocity and blood-thirstiness.  The other difference (or disagreement) is an expression of variety, that is itself perfection, and the means of manifesting the graces of the All-Glorious.
Look at the flowers of the gardens.  Although members of different families, having various colours, different forms and shapes, yet because they absorb the selfsame water and grow and thrive by the same breeze and are reared by the same heat and light of the one sun, this difference and variety produces greater beauty and grace and each appears more beautiful by contrast with the other.
When the complete proof, which is the effectiveness of the Word of God, obtains, this difference in nature's ethics, habits and thoughts results in the diversification and adornment of the human world.  Moreover this difference and variety is inherent and innate in the parts and members of man, which afford the means for revealing perfections, and since these members and parts (of the human organism) are under the control of the king of the spirit, the spirit interpenetrates the parts and governs even the veins and arteries.  This difference and variety then is no barrier to oneness and love governed by the spirit.  This diversity is indeed the greatest power of unity.
Should a garden have its trees with their branches, leaves, blossoms and fruit all of one kind, colour, shape and arrangement it would have no beauty and sweetness whatever.  But if it possess various hues, different leaves, blossoms and fruits, each will intensify the decorative effect and beauty of the other.  The garden will become perfect and excel in beauty, delicacy, freshness, sweetness and magnificence.
Likewise, the difference and variety
page 71
of thoughts, opinions, morals and temperaments of the human world when under the guidance of the one power and the influence of the world of oneness, will shine forth with the utmost greatness, beauty, sublimity and perfection.
Today no power save the great power of the Word of God, which comprehends the realities of things, can gather together under the shade of the same tree, the minds and hearts of the world of humanity.  It is the motive power of all things; it is the mover of souls and the controller and governor of the human world.
Praise be to God!  Today the light of the Word of God shines upon all horizons.  From every nation, tribe and denomination, souls are coming under the influence of the Word (of God) and have agreed and united with the utmost concord and harmony.
Many an assembly shall be organized whose members will be representatives of different nations, tribes and peoples.  If one attend such a meeting, he will be surprised and will imagine that those present are of one birth and nation, one people with the same thoughts and opinions, when, as a matter of fact, one may be an American, another a European; one from Hindustan (India), another from Turkistán; one an Arab, another a Tajik; one Persian, another Greek.  Notwithstanding this they consort together with joy and sing together in the utmost unity, harmony, love and solidarity in liberty and wisdom.  This is through the effect of the Word of God.
If all the powers of the world should convene, they could not organize an assembly like unto these assemblies.  Here with such remarkable love, attraction and zeal, different people unite in one assembly and raise their voices in unison in the centre of the world.  They cause the abolishment of war and murder, and the realization (and establishment) of universal peace, and the friendliness and unity of the world of humanity.  Can any power withstand the power of the Word of God?  No, verily, the proof is clear and the evidence complete.
If a soul open the eye of equity, he will become amazed and surprised and will testify justly that all the nations and peoples of the world should be grateful and thankful to the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  For these teachings make tame every ferocious animal, give speed to those that only move, transform human souls into angels of heaven and make the world of humanity the centre of the manifestation of mercy.  All are compelled thereby to obey and be loyal to the government.
Today no kingdom in all the world is confident and at ease, for security and confidence have disappeared from humanity.  Kings and subjects are alike in danger.
The sect today which obeys the government with perfect religious honesty, and practices the utmost integrity towards the nations is this oppressed sect.  The proof thereof is the following:  All the tribes in Persia and Turkistán are thinking of their own petty interests; if they obey the government it is either with the hope of favour or through fear of punishment.  But the Bahá'ís are well wishers of and obedient to the powers (or governments) and are loving and kind to all the nations.
This obedience and adherence are enjoined as duties upon all by the Beauty of Abhá (Bahá'u'lláh) in clear texts.  Therefore in compliance with the commandment of God they practise the utmost honesty and good-will toward the governments.  If any man commit a wrong against the government he must hold himself responsible before God and consider himself a sinner deserving of punishment.  Notwithstanding this it is amazing how some of the ministers of (political) affairs account all other sects well disposed, but the Bahá'ís ill disposed.
Praise be to God!  (An expression of wonder when thus used.)  In these lat-
page 72
ter days when a great general uprising and commotion took place in Tihrán and other cities of Írán (Persia), it was clearly evidenced that not a single Bahá'í interfered in these affairs nor troubled the populace, and for this reason they were blamed and criticised by others, for they had obeyed the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) and interfered not at all in political matters nor disturbed any sect.  They were occupied with their own affairs, trades and professions.
All the friends of God testify that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is entirely true to, and exhibits good-will toward the governments and nations of the world, especially, the two sublime governments of the East (Persia and Turkey), for these two countries were respectively the native land and habitation of his holiness, Bahá'u'lláh.  In all the epistles and writings he has commended and praised these two kingdoms, and has asked aid for them from the threshold of oneness.  The Beauty of Abhá-may my soul be a sacrifice for His beloved!-prayed in behalf of their majesties, the two sovereigns (the Sháh and the Sultán).  Praise be to God!  Notwithstanding these decisive arguments, each day an event occurs and difficulties appear.  But we and the beloved of God must not grow lax in the least in our honesty and good-will, nay rather in the utmost devotion and trustworthiness remain steadfast in our sincerity and engage in philanthropic prayers.
O beloved of God!  These days are the time for firmness and the period for steadfastness and constancy in the Cause of God.  You must not look upon the personality of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, for he will eventually bid ye farewell.  Nay, ye must observe the Word of God.  If the Word of God is in the ascendant, be happy, joyous and thankful, even if 'Abdu'l-Bahá be under a sword or beneath fetters and chains; for importance is in the holy temple of the Cause of God, and not in the physical mould of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
The beloved of God must be confirmed with such a firmness that if every moment a hundred like 'Abdu'l-Bahá become the target of arrows, no change should occur in their decision or intention, no transformation in their zeal or attraction to God, and no abatement in their occupation in the service of the Cause of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá is the servant of the Word of the Blessed Beauty and the manifestation of absolute servitude in the threshold of the Lord.  He has no other station, grade, class or power.  This is my utmost hope, my abiding paradise, my Masjídu'l-Aqsá1 (Most Holy Sanctuary) and my Sadratu'l-Muntahá2 (Divine Guidance).
The great Manifestation was fulfilled and consummated in the Blessed Beauty of Abhá (Bahá'u'lláh), and his holiness the Supreme (the great Báb) was the herald of the Blessed Beauty-may my spirit be a sacrifice to them!  Thus was it ended and for a thousand years all shall receive illumination from his lights and obtain (favour) from the sea of his favours.
O ye beloved of God!  This is my wish for ye and counsel to ye.  Blessed is he who is aided by God to comply with what is written on this leaf.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VI:10, 8 September 1915
page 73
Letters from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb to Bahá'ís in America
... [omitted]
page 79
Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 15 August 1915.
[Louis G. Gregory, Washington, D.C.] ... His ['Abdu'l-Bahá's] desire is that all the believers characterize themselves with these [divine] attributes, adorn their temples with these garments, ornament their bodies with these decorations and illumine their homes with these glistening lamps.  Then and not until then will they be considered as his sons and daughters.  His real solicitude is for their spiritual welfare and happiness.  Above everything else he wishes them to be joy-bringers to this sorrow-laden world.  This is considered to be their greatest mission.  They must cry at the top of their voices:
"Rejoice!  Rejoice!  O thou world of humanity!  The tree of thy hope is near the time of fruition!
page 80
"Rejoice!  Rejoice!  The rivers of celestial ideals are flowing from the mountains of decree!
"Rejoice!  Rejoice!  The gales of love and peace have stirred deeply the sea of God's grace and pity!
"Rejoice!  Rejoice!  The music of reality has attracted the hearts of all the sincere ones!
"Rejoice!  Rejoice!  The trees of the gardens of truth are bedecked with the most luscious fruits.
"Rejoice!  Rejoice!  The Beloved of all nations will soon enter the assembly of the children of men with a radiant face!
"Rejoice!  Rejoice! for the earth of capabilities is already begemmed [ornamented] with the sweet amaranths of love and the fragrant lilies of affection!"
In such wise the friends must work, for as the moral physicians of the world of humanity, their pharmacopoeia must be filled with all kinds of medicines; thus they may be able to treat every kind of illness and disease.  Firmness and steadfastness is the condition whereby they may attain to this unparalleled station.  They must close their eyes to the world and the things contained therein.  Their work is in the realm of the spirit; their efforts are along the line of morality and the inculcation of ethical principles.  They look at all times towards heaven and are enraptured with the beauty of the Beloved.  They are not attached to anything.  They pray at morn and eve for the misguided children of men and wish them naught but good and prosperity.  The heaven of their minds is not darkened with the clouds of prejudices nor the chambers of their hearts bedimmed with the smoke of hostility.  They are released from all such ties and are soaring in the atmosphere of sanctity.
I am writing you this letter from the lovely garden of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He is just walking amidst the beds of roses and talking with a number of friends on the corruptibility of nature and the sacredness of the Word of God.  Like unto the sun, he shines upon the just and unjust.  Every day we descend from the Pilgrim's House and spend several hours in the verdant garden and listen to the words of truth and wisdom.  They are indeed life-giving and soul-uplifting.  I wish you were present; but I am sure you can accomplish better and more efficient work where you are.
'Abdu'l-Bahá remembers you and sends you his greeting.  He prays for all the friends at the Holy Threshold and the blessed tomb of the Báb.
Give my greeting to ... all the friends.  We are all well and happy.  I anticipate the time when I shall have the pleasure of seeing you face to face.
I am ever your sincere brother.
(Signed) Ahmad


VI:11, 27 September 1915
page 82
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mr Andrew Carnegie1
To the noble personage, his excellency, Mr Andrew Carnegie,
May God assist him!
HE IS GOD!
O thou illustrious soul!  O thou the great pillar of the palace of universal peace!
It is some time since I intended to correspond with thee, but there was no intermediary between us.  Now that his excellency, Mr Topakyan, has made this possible through his kindly suggestion, I write thee this epistle; for truly I say thou art the lover of humanity and one of the founders of universal peace.
Today the most great service to the kingdom of God is the promotion of the principle of the unification of mankind and the establishment of universal peace.  A number of souls who were doctrinaires and unpractical thinkers worked for the realization of this most exalted aim and good cause, but they were doomed to failure, save that lofty personage who has been and is still promoting the matter of international arbitration and general conciliation through deeds, words, self-sacrifice and the generous donation of wealth and property.  Rest thou assured that through the confirmations of the holy spirit thou wilt become confirmed and assisted in the accomplishment of this most resplendent service, and in this mortal world thou shalt lay the foundation of an immortal, everlasting edifice, and in the end thou wilt sit upon the throne of incorruptible glory in the kingdom of God.
All the leaders and statesmen of Europe are thinking on the plane of war and the annihilation of the mansion of humanity, but thou art thinking on the plane of peace and love and the strengthening and reinforcement of the basis of the superstructure of the human world.  They are the heralds of death, thou art the harbinger of life.  The foundations of their palaces are unstable and wavering and the turrets of their mansions are tottering and crumbling, but the basis of thy structure is firm and unmovable.
While I was journeying throughout America and Europe, I cried before all the meetings, conventions, and churches:  "O ye noble friends!  The world of humanity is facing in the future a most portentous danger and supreme calamity.  The continent of Europe has become like unto a gunpowder magazine and arsenal, under which are hidden combustible materials of the most inflammatory nature.  Its combustion will be dependent upon the sudden and unexpected enkindlement of one tiny spark which shall envelop the whole earth with a world-wide conflagration, causing the total collapse of European civilization
page 83
through the furious, wild, raging, fiery tongues of war.  Therefore, O ye well-wishers of the world of humanity, endeavour by day and by night so that these inflammable materials may not come in touch with the burning fires of racial antipathy and hatred!"
Today the life of mankind and its attainment to everlasting glory depend on its display of effort and exertion in accord with the principles of his holiness Bahá'u'lláh; for his first and foremost teaching consists of the oneness of the world of humanity.  He says:  "We are all the sheep of God.  His Highness, the Almighty, is the real Shepherd and kind to all the sheep.  Why then should we be unkind toward each other?"  Another of his most great institutes deals with the subject of universal peace, the establishment of which would be conducive to the well-being and progress and tranquillity of the commonwealth of man.
Other precepts of Bahá'u'lláh treat of the identity of the underlying foundations of the religions of God, the original oneness of the nations, the adoption and general practice of a universal auxiliary language and the inculcation of the ideal of cosmopolitanism and world-patriotism among the children of men; consequently in the future his teachings will act as a deterrent and preventive from the occurrence of the most great danger, i.e., universal war.
Today the most important object of the kingdom of God is the promulgation of the cause of universal peace and the principle of the oneness of the world of humanity.  Whosoever arises in the accomplishment of this pre-eminent service the confirmations of the holy spirit will descend upon him.
Now all that has been predicted has come to pass, and the lurid flames of this war have emblazoned the horizon of the east and the west, causing a reverberating social earthquake through the columns of the earth.  After this war the workers for the cause of universal peace will increase day by day, and the pacific party will array its force, displaying great activity with better advantage, and in the end gaining a permanent triumph and eternal victory over all the other parties.  The realization of this matter is incontestable and irrefragable.
Therefore, ere long a vast and unlimited field will be opened before your view for the display of your powers and energies.  You must promote this glorious intention with the heavenly power and the confirmation of the holy spirit.  I am praying in thy behalf that thou mayest erect a pavilion and unfurl a flag in the world of peace, love, and eternal life.
I beg you to accept the consideration of my highest and deepest respect.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 1 May 1915.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


VI:11, 27 September 1915
page 83
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
To the Bahá'í Assembly of Portland, Oregon.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye denizens of the Kingdom!
Your letter was received and caused joy and gladness, for it was an evidence of firmness and steadfastness.  praise be to God, ye have an assembly in the utmost joy and fragrance; the candle thereof being the blessings of his holiness Bahá'u'lláh, the spirit of that meeting is the confirmations of the supreme kingdom, and the sustenance of that gathering is celestial benediction.  I hope that the life of that assembly shall be
page 87
the breaths of the holy spirit, and in accordance with the heavenly teachings ye become regiments of universal peace, breaking asunder the armies of war and strife through the power and teachings of his holiness Bahá'u'lláh, and thus raise the standard of unity, of friendship and of love in the world of humanity.
The Americans are distinguished from the Europeans in this noble ideal, viz.:  universal peace, and it is proper that they glory before all nations.  His honour Mr William Jennings Bryan, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, especially, has in reality stood by the promulgation of universal peace with the utmost effort; and because in this matter he is striving exactly in accordance with the teachings of his holiness Bahá'u'lláh, he is self-sacrificing.  My hope is that he will become a candle of the Convention for Universal Peace and shine forth like unto the morning star from the horizon of the oneness of the world of humanity.
It may come to pass that some corrupted souls shall come to America working to bring about the wavering of your hearts; but ye must be firm like unto a mountain in faith and the Covenant, and be not shaken by the blowing of contrary winds.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated 14 October 1914, Mt. Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


VI:11, 27 September 1915
page 84
Some Bahá'í teachings on peace and war
Extract from a Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 4 October 1914.
About fifty years ago, his holiness Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed certain teachings, and chanted the song of Universal Peace.  In numerous tablets and epistles1 he foretold in the most clear language the present cataclysm:  stating that the world of humanity was facing the most portentous danger, and that the coming of universal war was unfortunately inevitable; for the combustible material stored in the infernal arsenals of Europe would some day explode through contact with a single spark.  Amongst other things he foresaw that the Balkans would become a volcano, and the map of Europe would be changed.  For these and similar reasons Bahá'u'lláh invited the kings and rulers of the world to lay down their arms and proclaim an era of universal peace.
...


VI:12, 16 October 1915
page 92
Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to American Bahá'ís
To the beloved of God in America-On them be glory and bounty!
The maid-servant of God, Lua, was a long time occupied in India in spreading the fragrances of the love of God.  She is now ready to return to the regions of America.  Show her every consideration.  She is firm in the Covenant of love.  In reality she worked vigorously during her sojourn in India, and she is worthy of love.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, 27 August 1915.
Editor's note
Alláh-u-Abhá!
On the opposite page [page 93] we take pleasure in reproducing a photographic copy of the original tablet written by 'Abdu'l-Bahá sent through Lua Getsinger to the Bahá'ís in America, the English translation of which is given above.  Perhaps, some who read the simple statements in this tablet may wonder why it was written at all, inasmuch as the bearer is well known to all the Bahá'ís in America; yet to those who are informed of the spread of the Bahá'í Cause in the West, it is replete with meanings.
What we have in mind is this:  It is the duty of Bahá'ís, of course, to receive all, whether from the East or the West in the spirit of friendship, but as a protection to the Cause, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has made it a rule that any one coming from the East, whether a Bahá'í or not, even if it be one of his own relatives, who does not bring a letter of permission written in his ['Abdu'l-Bahá's] own handwriting with his own signature-such an one must not be approached by the Bahá'ís, who must even shun him.
page 93
The following extracts from tablets and cablegrams sent by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Bahá'ís in America, explain this important matter:
Tablet revealed many years ago:
O ye beloved of God!  Highway robbers are many and hypocrites are innumerable.  The wolves clothe themselves with the shepherd's garment and thieves show themselves in the form of watchmen.  Hereafter, if any Persian or Oriental come to those parts, even though he be from the very city of 'Akká, if ye find he does not possess a letter written by the hand and sealed by the seal of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, you must decidedly avoid him.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Cable
Cable from London to Wilhelmite, New York, received 30 December 1912:
Receive no Persian, even my family, without autographic permission.  Communicate to all friends.  (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Charles Mason Remey
From a tablet to Charles Mason Remey, Washington, D.C., translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, London, England, 29 December 1912:
Awaken the friends, for ere long a test shall come.  Perchance some persons, outwardly firm and inwardly wavering, shall come to those parts in order to weaken the faith of the friends in the Covenant of God.  Let them be awake!  Let them be mindful!  As long as they see a trace of violation of the Covenant, they must hold aloof from the violator.  Day and night let them strive so that the lights of the Kingdom of Abhá may encircle the globe, and the darkness of error may be entirely dispelled.  (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Cablegram
Cablegram received 3 February 1913, from Paris to Wilhelmite, New York.
We have reached Paris.  Greetings to all.  Any Persian, be he my own
page 94
son or daughter, if he comes to America without having a new permission written in my own handwriting or signature, do not meet him at all.  Inform all cities.  (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Cablegram
Cablegram from Paris, 14 February 1913, to Parsons-Remey, Washington.
I am servant of Bahá!  His holiness Bahá'u'lláh is unique and peerless.  All must turn to Bahá'u'lláh.  This is the religion of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Firmness in the Covenant means love and obedience to the command of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Announce this.  (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Mr Roy C. Wilhelm
Portion of a tablet to Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 March 1913, Paris, France.  The original of this tablet is in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's own handwriting.
Convey my longing greeting to all the believers of God throughout all the cities of America and announce to them on my behalf that if any person from amongst the Persian believers who may be well known as to his character, whether man or woman-although he may be my own son or daughter-comes to America and has not a new permission for his going to America written with my own handwriting and signed with my own signature, you must not give him any attention at all.  Whosoever speaks with him is a violator of the Covenant!  This question is most important.  Undoubtedly you must show the utmost caution.  There are some wolves in sheep's clothes who may claim to be shepherds.  Whosoever from amongst the Persian believers arrives in America although he may be related to me,-that is,-even if he be my son-in-law or she be my daughter, first ask of him the letter giving him a new permission to come again to America.  If he shows you any such letter, be most careful and attentive that it is my writing and my signature, that they may not be counterfeits.  Then you cable to me and inquire about him.  When the answer is received by you that it is correct then you meet him, otherwise do not associate with him.  Announce the contents of this letter to all the believers and the maid-servants of the Merciful throughout America.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Mrs Harriet Cline
Excerpt from tablet to Mrs Harriet Cline, Los Angeles, California, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Paris, 29 March 1913:
Today firmness in the Covenant is the means of the promotion of the Word of God and conducive to the effect of the word of man.  Any explanation which does not accord with the Covenant will have no effect whatever.  Therefore, whosoever heralds the Covenant of God, unquestionably he is confirmed.  This has been tried a thousand times:  Any soul who violates the Covenant and Testament in the least degree, immediately he is cut off; even in this material world he will become afflicted with remorse and regret.  (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to an American Bahá'í
From a tablet to an American Bahá'í, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Paris, 4 March 1913:
Whosoever claims that 'Abdu'l-Bahá has given to him a tablet or sent a cablegram he must prove it (by showing it).  Do not accept the saying of anyone on mere statement.  He must bring forth the unmistakable and valid
page 95
evidence, signed by my own written signature and not the signature on a cablegram which cannot be substantiated.  (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Message to the American Bahá'ís
Message from 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his own handwriting, to the American Bahá'ís, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 September 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.
Any Persian, whether Bahá'í, or belonging to the ancient religions of Persia-in short, any Persian-without carrying in his hand a letter either in my handwriting, or signed with my signature, the believers must not associate with him or speak to him, even if he is Shoghi Effendi or Ruhí Effendi (the two grandsons of 'Abdu'l-Bahá).  The friends must demand of him before anything else, his credential letter, written in my handwriting, or signed with my signature.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Mr Charles Mason Remey
Portion of a tablet to Mr Charles Mason Remey, translated in Ramleh, Egypt, 23 September 1913:
I have repeatedly written that any Persian-although he be my relative or Afnán-if he has no credential in his hand, the believers must not at all approach him, or associate with him, because all the enemies of the Cause in Persia-Yahyáyís, Náqidíns and Sufists-are turning their attention to America and will come in order to weaken the Cause of God.  You must protect the Cause of God, and write to every one, and awaken all, that they must not meet any Persian who has not in his hand a credential in my handwriting and signature.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet
In response to a letter detailing the circumstances attending the arrival in San Francisco of two Persians from India (via Honolulu), without credentials, of their appearance at a Bahá'í meeting, of their being advised to leave and return to their hotel, and of their being entertained subsequently in the home of a believer, the following tablet was revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Ramleh, Egypt, 30 September 1913:
O thou who are attracted to the Kingdom of Abhá!  Thy letter was received.  Its details concerning those two persons (Persians) became known.  You have acted most reasonably.  Every Persian, or non-Persian, who comes from the East and has not in his hand a letter from me, although he may be one of my relatives, the believers must not receive him, neither should they let him enter into their meetings.  For some wolves are coming from Persia to those parts in order to tear the sheep of God, and to scatter the seeds of corruption and to become the means of division-especially the followers of Mírzá Yahyá.  To receive those souls would be like permitting a thief to enter a home, or like letting a wolf into a flock (of sheep).  Unquestionably this is not permissible!
A man may receive his own enemy into his house and show him the utmost respect and consideration, but it is not allowable to receive a thief into his house, nor a traitor into his home, nor a wolf into the flock.  This would be injustice.  Although the heart of the wolf is displeased at this, yet the sheep of God must be protected. ...
Show ye the utmost kindness toward enemies, that is, ignorant enemies, but not toward traitorous and treacherous enemies.  I hope that through the divine bounty and favour you may be guarded and protected.
Say to those two persons (Persians):  "Because we have explicit instructions in regard to this matter we cannot disobey them.  It would have been
page 96
better for you to have gone first to 'Akká, and, receiving permission and credentials, to have come to America from there.  Then you would have experienced the utmost consideration.  You must likewise obey this command.  If you are sincere believers, act according to this clear injunction."
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Tablet to Miss Juliet Thompson
Portion of a tablet to Miss Juliet Thompson, New York City, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 29 October 1913, Ramleh, Egypt:
Convey this message to each and all the believers in New York:  Any person who comes to America from the East, whether Bahá'í or non-Bahá'í, although he may be one of my relatives, such as Mírzá Jalál, Mírzá Muhsin and Mírzá Hádí (the three sons-in-law of 'Abdu'l-Bahá), who has not in his hand a letter of permission in my handwriting and signature, the believers of God must not at all approach him, but shun him and know that he is a wolf-he has come to scatter the flock; a thief-he has come to rob the house. ...
Tablet
From a tablet to the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, United States of America; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 19 April 1914.  (These words are in the handwriting of 'Abdu'l-Bahá):
If a Persian comes from the East to those parts-supposing the impossible:  Although he may be my own son, or the only daughter of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-without having in his hand an epistle with my own hand and my own signature, to meet and hold conversation with him is forbidden.  For whosoever goes to America without permission has no other aim save sedition and the violation of the Covenant.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Mr Roy C. Wilhelm
Tablet to Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, New York City, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 August 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.
The confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá shall descend uninterruptedly upon those souls who are firm in the Covenant.  Thou hast well observed that every firm one is assisted and aided and every violator is degraded, humiliated and lost.  It is very astonishing that people are not admonished.  They have observed how Mírzá Muhammad 'Alí on account of the violation of the Covenant descended to the lowest degree of humiliation, and yet they do not become mindful.  They have seen how others through disobedience to the Testament have fallen into a well of degradation, and yet they are not awakened.  This Covenant is the Covenant of his holiness, Bahá'u'lláh.  Now its importance is not known befittingly; but in the future it shall attain to such a degree of importance that if a king violates to the extent of one atom he shall be cut off immediately.
Consider that during the life of Christ-May my life be a sacrifice to him!-his cause had no importance whatsoever; nay, rather the people scoffed and ridiculed him, and according to the text of the Gospel they called him Beelzebub.  Now you can see the importance which it had later.  (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
In the light of the foregoing, further comment on our part is unnecessary.  "Peace be upon those who follow guidance."
It is evident that those who are favoured with a written word of approval from 'Abdu'l-Bahá should receive every consideration.  Lua Getsinger has been thus favoured; "she is worthy of love".-The Editors.


VI:13, 4 November 1915
page 101
Messages from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Bahá'ís in Germany
Portion of letter from Mírzá 'Azízu'lláh dated Haifa, 30 July 1915, addressed to Miss Alma S. Knobloch, Stuttgart, Germany.
"I translated all the enclosed letters immediately and offered them to our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He became very happy thereby.  He loves all of you, dear friends.  He often speaks highly of the character of his German children.  He says:  'They are pure, their nature is not stained by any disagreeable quality.  They are readily confirmed by the hosts of the Kingdom.  They are blessed in their activities in serving and helping the negligent and distressed.  Their success in the service of the kingdom of God is sure.'
"Dear sister, he praises them so often that I do not know which time to write.  I have only to congratulate all for their nobility of character which attracts so many blessings from him.
"Also I pray that he may keep them always under his guarding staff, safe from the thieves of worldly desires, pride and negligence.  I am sure he does this, and consequently they will always strive and shine brilliantly among other friends upon the horizon of the Cause."
__________
Message from 'Abdu'l-Bahá, to the Bahá'ís of Germany, through Frau Consul Schwarz, translated by A. S. Bahádur, Mount Carmel, 25 July 1915:
"O dear friends!
"Praise be to God, we are all well and safe under the shelter of divine patronage and protection.  We are in the utmost harmony; we pray night and day and beseech God's mercy for all the people of the world, that He may not look at the capacity of His creatures (at what the people deserve), but may He deal with them through His mere Blessing and Grace, so that the means of comfort and joy may be attained; so that the hearts may become lamps for (His) lights, and the souls (people) may attain God's pleasure.  This is our utmost desire and longing.  And you also pray that the ocean of bounties may rise in waves, and all the people may be-
page 102
come immersed in the ocean of God's forgiveness.
"God be praised!  Strong love is produced between Germany and Islám.  The Islamic world is in love with the Germanic world.  The former loves exceedingly, the latter.
"What a good friendship is produced!  We hope that this love and friendship will give rise to great results, that it will influence others (nations) also.
"By the grace of God, we are well and happy.  We hope that you are happy too.  Your postal cards were received.  As they bear the glad-tidings of your good health, they became the cause of our delight and joy.  May peace be upon you!"


VI:14, 23 November 1915
page 106
The Covenant of God1
George O. Latimer
In all the Holy Scriptures the "Covenant and Testament" of God has been given to man through the prophets and in order to clearly and fully comprehend the Bahá'í Revelation it is necessary to understand the meaning and purpose of this Covenant and Testament as it has existed in past ages as well as its importance in this present day.  As the term implies, a "covenant" means a compact or an agreement and a "testament" is a document by which one disposes of his property after his death.  In legal phraseology the term, covenant, is used in the sense of a mutual promise and necessarily implies that there are two parties to the agreement:  the promisor and the promisee.  The promisor agrees to fulfil certain conditions upon the performing of certain acts by the promisee.
Now the "Covenant of God" is a promise, with the Creator as the party of the first part and the people of the world as the party of the second, that "at the 'end of the days', God will establish His kingdom on earth as it is in heaven."  In each successive cycle this Covenant or promise has been renewed with man by the Word of God speaking through His Manifestations, but each time it has been given in a different testamentary form.  A testament requires two witnesses to make it valid, and the preceding and succeeding prophet in each dispensation have been these witnesses.  For example, Moses promised the coming of Christ and Christ said that he fulfilled the prophecy of Moses, thus these two were the witnesses to God's Covenant, and in like manner, this has been the case in every age.
The subject is clearly explained in the following tablet from the pen of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
"His holiness Abraham-On him be peace-made a covenant concerning his holiness Moses and gave the glad-tidings of his coming.  His holiness Moses made a covenant concerning the 'promised one', i.e., his holiness Christ, and an-
page 107
nounced the good news of his Manifestation to the world.  His holiness Christ made a covenant concerning the Paraclete and gave the tidings of his coming.  His holiness the prophet Muhammad made a covenant concerning his holiness the Báb, and the Báb was the one promised by Muhammad-for Muhammad gave the glad-tidings of his coming.  The Báb made a covenant concerning Bahá'u'lláh and gave the glad-tidings of his coming, and Bahá'u'lláh was the one promised by his holiness the Báb.  Bahá'u'lláh made a covenant concerning a promised one who will become manifest after one thousand, or thousands of years.  He likewise, with his Supreme Pen, entered into a great covenant and testament with all the Bahá'ís whereby they were all commanded to follow the Centre of the Covenant after his (Bahá'u'lláh's) departure, and turn not away, even to a hairsbreadth, from obeying him."
In reality, there has been but one Covenant.  Each prophet has renewed this Covenant in a different manner and to distinguish the promise of one from that of the other, it is spoken of as the covenant of Abraham, the covenant of Moses, etc., and in this "latter day" it has been referred to by Jeremiah (31:31) as the "new covenant".
Thus God has entered into this Covenant with all His Manifestations and each in turn has given it to the world, but always in a new form according to the understanding of the people.  The story of Adam and the Garden of Eden is an account of this Covenant.  Again the Ark of Noah represents this Covenant.  The "everlasting covenant" with Abraham that "his seed would inherit the earth" explains the promise, Moses fulfilled this Covenant on Mount Sinai.  Christ referred to this Covenant when he spoke of Peter as the "rock" upon which the church was to be built.  Again the account of Fama-Gadeer (where Muhammad told the people to turn to his successor, 'Alí) relates to this Covenant.  The Book of Bayán, in which the Báb commanded his followers to turn to Bahá'u'lláh as the one "Whom God shall Manifest", is this same Covenant, and the Kitáb-i-'Ahd (Book of the Covenant), written by Bahá'u'lláh, is the establishment of this same Covenant.
This Covenant is the source of order in the world.  In the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The Covenant is an Orb which shines and gleams forth unto the universe.  Verily, its lights will dispel darkness, its sea will cast out the froth of suspicion upon the shores of perdition.  Verily, naught in the world can resist the power of the Kingdom.  Should all mankind assemble, could they prevent the sun from giving its light, the winds from their blowing, the clouds from their showers, the mountains from their firmness or the stars from their beaming?  No! by the Lord, the Clement.  Everything (in the world) is subject to corruption, but the Covenant of thy Lord shall continue to pervade all regions."
Each one of the prophets testified to the renewal of this Covenant by the one who was to come after him and at the same time pointed to the final Covenant which would be a culmination of all the preceding ones and which would be the establishment of God's Kingdom in the hearts of mankind.  In the Old Testament this Covenant has been symbolized by salt.  Moses commanded that all offerings be seasoned with the "salt of the covenant of God".  In Numbers 18:19, it is referred to as "a covenant of salt forever before the Lord."  In Chronicles II, 13:5, it is stated that the Lord gave the kingdom of Israel over to David and his sons by "a covenant of salt".  Again Christ says to his disciples (Matt. 5:13):  "Ye are the salt of the earth; but if the salt hath lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted?"  Salt has been used to characterize the spiritual power which gives life to humanity and if one is deprived of its savour by losing hold of the Covenant his spiritual sustenance is cut off.
Today, the symbol of the spiritual power of the Covenant is love.  All through the biblical scriptures the wrath
page 108
of God is called down upon those who violate the Covenant of God or loose hold thereof, but His protection is guaranteed to all who come under its divine power.  In the present day, the Covenant has again been the means of illuminating mankind.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "The Covenant has such a sway that it astonishes the minds.  In every region the sign of the power of the Covenant is apparent and manifest.  For instance, in Persia the fire of revolution blazed in such wise that all communities, government and nation became afflicted with the most severe trials; but the power of the Covenant protected the Bahá'í friends to such a degree that in this turbulent storm no dust fell upon them, except in one locality, which became the cause of the spreading of the Religion of God and the diffusion of the Word of God.  Now all the parties in Persia are wondering how the people of Bahá' were guarded and protected."  (Extract from a Tablet.)
Thus in every age the people have been commanded to "remain firm in this Covenant", i.e., to perform their part of the agreement, for unless both parties carry out their side of the agreement, the Covenant becomes invalid and cannot be established.  The way in which the people are to fulfil their side of this compact is to turn to God with open hearts and to follow His commandments and abide in His love.  When they do this the confirmations of heaven will reach them; all their desires and longings will be fulfilled by the establishment of this very same Covenant.
Today, this Covenant is fulfilled by the Manifestation of the three Bahá'í teachers:  the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The coming of the three to establish the Covenant in this day-one as the "Forerunner", one as the "Lord of Hosts", and one as the "Centre of the Covenant" was promised by God in the clearest of terms through the prophet Malachi (3:1):  "Behold I will send my [1] messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me; [2] and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple; [3] even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in, behold he shall come, saith the Lord of Hosts."  It is not meant however, that these three holy personages are to be considered as separate manifestors of the Word of God in this day, for the Word of God is
page 109
ever given in its oneness and singleness, i.e., it is made manifest through only one channel or individual at a time.
The reality of their Manifestation is likened unto that of a tree:  the Báb, known as the "First Point" of this Revelation, is the first off-shoot from the seed of the Tree; Bahá'u'lláh is the "Pre-existent Root" of the same Tree, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the "Greatest Branch" of that Tree.  All parts of the Tree are nourished by the same osmosis (the Word of God), and each is dependent on the other for sustenance.  In the botanical kingdom, the direct, upward growing branch of the tree is known as the main or greatest branch of the tree while all the other branches are considered as offshoots from this main branch.  The seed of the tree is its manifestation, for it is the seed itself which appears in the form of branches, leaves and fruits.  The fruit cannot be ripened and perfected save through the branch, and without the fruit the potentiality of the seed ceases to exist.  The people of the world are the leaves of this tree and the leaves receive their nourishment through the branch.  When the connection with the branch is severed they drop off from the tree and wither up.  The purpose of the tree is to produce fruit and while the root may live for awhile without its branch, yet it is not able to complete its existence; therefore the root and the trunk are one and each is subservient to the other for the perfection of their manifestation.  "The essential object is the Tree, the foundation is the Tree, and the Universal Reality is the Tree."
The perfection of this "Branch" has been foretold by God through Zechariah (3:7):  "For, behold, I will bring forth my servant, the Branch"; and the promise was also given through Isaiah (11:1):  "And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse.  [Bahá'u'lláh descended from Jesse, the son of Abraham-not Jesse, the father of David], and a Branch shall grow out of his root, and the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him."  Again Isaiah said (4:2):  "In that day shall the Branch of the Lord be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and comely."
The branch is the centre of the tree's existence; likewise in this world of creation there is a centre for everything and all the bounties of existence come from that centre.  For example, everything in this physical world is dependent for its existence upon the centre of gravity which holds all the physical bodies together.  If anything should detach itself for one instant from this centre of attraction it will immediately fall off into space, and so far as part of the life of this planet is concerned it will cease to exist.  In our solar system the sun is the centre of illumination.  All forms of genesis appear through its light and heat, without which there would be no growth and development; there would be no vegetable kingdom, no animal kingdom, and all life in the world would cease to exist.  The earth, the moon and all the planets receive their illumination from this same sun, and if deprived of its rays they would be in eternal darkness.  In the mineral kingdom the elements are held together by a centre known as chemical affinity, and likewise there is a centre for all life in the vegetable world.  Again the human organism is a unit composed of various organs all dependent upon one centre-the heart-for life and sustenance.  As long as all the different parts are in perfect connection with the heart, they co-ordinate and perform their separate functions in harmony and accord, and life will be manifest in its fullest perfection; but if the supply of life-giving blood is cut off from one of the members of the body, immediately that organ begins to disintegrate and die.  In turn its death will cause the contamination of the other members, and eventually the entire body will become diseased, and death will be the result.  In our commercial life there is a focusing point that controls affairs.  The heart of the city is the business
page 110
centre which regulates the life of the entire city.  In a like manner there are co-ordinate units of centralization for the social, civic and political welfare of the community.  In fact, everything in the material world demands a centralizing of forces for the well-being and progress of humanity.
Now, the material world is a counterpart or reflection of the spiritual world and as there is a centre of attraction for everything in the terrestrial globe-this being an universal law of nature-likewise, there must be a centre of attachment in the spiritual world.  In every age the absence of this centre in the spiritual world has been the cause of the decline and departure of the spirit from religion.  Differences and misunderstandings have crept in and falsehood has supplanted truth, creating new sects and thus destroying the very foundations of religion.  Strife and contention makes division, and separation is the cause of death, for every creation is an organized unit, the members of which are held together by the centre of attraction.
Because in former times there was no distinct centre of the Covenant of God, after each renewal, decay set in and the Word of God became contaminated by man-made creeds and dogmas which in turn caused disagreement, opposition and bitter struggle throughout the centuries, down to the present time; and now this strife in the spiritual world, as well as in the physical world is at its height for the very reason that this Centre is unknown.
In former ages no distinct personage had been appointed to be the Centre which was to differentiate between truth and falsehood and thus eradicate all differences arising in the mind of man.  Many have thought that Peter was made the expounder of the Book, when Christ said, "Thou art Peter, and upon this rock will I build my church"; but this was only an indication and confirmation of Peter's faith, for the word "rock" was used as a symbol of faith, and the Christian church was established through the faith of the people in Christ.  Yet there were dissentions in the time of Christ because there was no Centre, and men began to interpret and explain his teachings in the way that most benefited themselves.  The separation between Roman and Greek church was due to a small question of interpretation-whether a word meant "by" or "through".  Today the signs of man are far more evidence in the church, than the signs of Christ.
Therefore, in order to have accord and harmony in the spiritual world, and the establishment of God's Kingdom of love and peace on earth, and the uniting of all peoples under the tent of oneness, a Centre is necessary, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá has been appointed that Centre.  He is the Explainer of the Word and the Expounder of the Book of God revealed to the world in this day through Bahá'u'lláh.  In the Kitáb-i-'Ahd (Book of the Covenant) the Tablet of the Branch, and in numerous writings, Bahá'u'lláh clearly appoints 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Greatest Branch, as the one to whom all should turn for spiritual guidance and knowledge after his departure.  He writes in his Will and Testament:  "When the Ocean of My Presence hath disappeared and the Book of Origin is achieved to the end, turn your faces toward Him-Whom-God-hath-purposed, who hath branched from this Pre-Existent Root.  The aim of this blessed verse hath been the Greatest Branch."  Again he commanded:  "After My departure turn to the Branch for what ye do not understand", and in a tablet to 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed "O Thou My Greatest Branch", he said, "Verily, We have ordained Thee the guardian of all the creatures, and a Protection to all those in the heavens and earths, and a Fortress to those who believe in God, the One, the Omniscient!  I beg of God to protect them by Thee; to enrich them by Thee, to nourish them by Thee; and to reveal to Thee that which is the Dawning-point of riches to the people of Creation, and the Ocean of Generosity to
page 111
those in the world, and the Rising-point of favour to all nations.  Verily, He is the Powerful, the All-knowing, the Wise!  I beg of Him to water the earth and all that is in it by Thee, that there may spring up from it the Flowers of Wisdom and Revelation and the Hyacinths of science and knowledge."  Also in another tablet:  "Thou knowest, O my God that, verily I have chosen Him, only because Thou hast chosen Him; I have elected Him, only because Thou hast elected Him.  Therefore assist Him by the Hosts of Thy Heaven and earth.  Help Thou, O My God, whosoever may help Him! choose, whosoever may choose Him! strengthen whosoever may advance toward Him! and reject whosoever may deny Him and desire Him not!"
These are a few of the many utterances of Bahá'u'lláh referring to the appointment of 'Abdu'l-Bahá as the Centre of His Covenant.  This does not mean that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the "Promised One" of Bahá'u'lláh, for that One will not appear until after one thousand or thousand of years, but it means that 'Abdu'l-Bahá has been made the Standard differentiating falsehood from truth, and his explanations of the meanings of the texts and verses are the truth.
Therefore, again in this day, all the people are exhorted to firmness in God's Covenant, and this is accomplished by turning to 'Abdu'l-Bahá for enlightenment and guidance in all affairs.  He says:  "Firmness in the Covenant means obedience, so that no one may say, 'This is my opinion'; nay rather, he must obey that which proceeds from the Pen and Tongue of the Covenant.  Any explanation which does not accord with the Covenant will have no effect whatsoever.  Therefore, whosoever heralds the Covenant of God, unquestionably he is confirmed.  Know this for a certainty that today, the penetrative power in the arteries of the world of humanity, is the power of the Covenant.  The body of the world will not be moved through any power except through the power of the Covenant.  There is no other power like unto this.  This Spirit of the Covenant, is the real Centre of love and is reflecting its rays to all parts of the globe, which are resuscitating and regenerating man and illuminating the path to the Divine Kingdom."
Through all His Prophets, God has urged the people to firmness and obedience so that His Everlasting Covenant may be established:  It is His universal law that all things which are not attached to their life-giving Centre, disintegrate and die, and in order to preserve the oneness of all humanity, He has made known that spiritual Centre which will unite all and establish His Kingdom in the hearts of men.
When the electric light bulb loses its connection with the power-house it becomes extinct and ceases to give forth light.  The Centre of the Covenant is the Divine Magneto which is illuminating the world, dispelling the darkness of racial and religious hatred, and lighting up the way made dark by the superstitions and blind imitations of former ages.  It is the Magnet which is attracting the hearts of men to God.  This awakening is being accomplished by the Servitude of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to mankind.  His whole life has been one of sacrifice and service so that man might become mindful of God's wishes.  After a life of imprisonment and trials and at an advanced age, he travelled throughout Europe and America, undergoing many hardships, in order to serve the people by rending asunder the veils of ignorance and disclosing the realities of all things, thus illuminating this dark world of materialism.
Assuredly, the words of Jesus (Matt. 23:11) to the multitude:  "But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant", are being fulfilled today by 'Abdu'l-Bahá the "Servant of God".  His greatest wish is:  "To be a faithful servant and a sincere slave at the Threshold of Bahá'u'lláh.  Whosoever entertains perfect love for me and is firm in the Covenant must know and believe that I am the Servant of the Threshold
page 112
of the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh).  But the Centre of the Covenant is the Point toward which all the people of the world must turn their faces.  He is the Interpreter of the Books and all the Bahá'ís are beneath his protection.  Therefore, if any soul by himself, interprets the Books of God contrary to the clear text emanating from the pen of the Covenant, it is not acceptable and this will become the cause of differences amongst the believers of God"  (From a recent Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá).
The fruit appears upon the branch and not upon the root of the tree, therefore the fruits of Bahá'u'lláh's teachings are being ripened and brought to fruition through 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He is ushering in the new harvest of Universal Peace and the Oneness of the World of Humanity-which means the cessation of fruitless strife and ruinous warfare.  Thus the antagonism of faiths and religions and the racial and patriotic differences will be eradicated and for all there will be one religion, one faith, one race, one people and one home, and the din and clamour caused by warfare and discordant revelry will be changed to the beautiful and harmonious melodies of the kingdom of paradise.
These blessings are coming to man through his firmness in the Covenant.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has said:  "Today firmness in the Covenant is the means of the promotion of the Word of God and conducive to the effect of the word of man," for the fulfilment of this Covenant it is necessary for the believers of God to imitate the conduct and manner of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that is they must engage in teaching and spreading the Cause of God; their words must be like the flame of fire, burning away the veils of dogmas, passion and desire and they must be in the utmost state of humility and self-renunciation so that others may be mindful.  In order to accomplish this fulfilment of the Covenant, one has only to follow out the following admonition of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
"Through the protection and help of the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh), you must conduct and deport yourselves in such a manner that you may stand out among other souls distinguished by a brilliancy like unto the sun.  If any one of you enters a city he must become the centre of attraction because of the sincerity, faithfulness, honesty, fidelity, truthfulness, and loving-kindness of his disposition and nature toward all the inhabitants of the world.  That the people of the city may cry out.  'This person is unquestionably a Bahá'í.  For his manners, his behaviour, his conduct, his morals, his nature and his disposition are of the attributes of the Bahá'ís.'  Until you do attain to this station, you have not fulfilled the Covenant and Testament of God."


VI:15, 12 December 1915
page 114
The Call of God1
George O. Latimer
The Bahá'í Message has been given to the world on the same basis as that of all the past religions, that is, the acknowledgement of a single divinity which is all-powerful, all-comprehending, all-encompassing.  This divinity is an unknown essence, an infinite being known as God.  "God, singly and alone, abideth in His own place, which is holy above space and time, mention and utterance, sign, description and definition, height and depth.  God alone should be realized as the one power which animates and dominates all things which are but manifestations of its energy." [Bahá'u'lláh]  All things owe their existence to God and are dependent upon Him for guidance and advancement.  All existence testifies to a creator and every kingdom is in need of an educator.
For example, the barren soil when tilled produces abundant crops.  By cultivation, fertilization and engrafting, trees which produced bitter fruits, yield sweet fruits.  Without the training of the gardener the flowers become choked by weeds and cease to give forth their fragrance.  By careful training the animal has become domesticated and is of great service to mankind, but if it is left untrained it remains a wild, often ferocious beast.  Man also, if left without training, becomes bestial, in fact he becomes lower than the animal, for the greater number of animals protect their own kind, while men ... kill and eat one another; whereas if man be educated he becomes a heavenly being.  If it were not for education, no facilities or wonderful industries in the world, sciences and arts would be known, and civilization would not exist.
Now man, the greatest of all God's handiwork, is in constant need of education.  He is born into the world helpless and remains in this condition for a long time.  His faculties are brought into use only by training.  He does not speak until taught to do so.  Later on he is sent to school and receives instruction in the arts, sciences and needs of humanity.  In fact, his whole life from birth to death is one period of learning.  As man has material faculties which need development, so he has within him spiritual faculties, latent powers given him by God, which must be awakened.
Thus man is in need of three kinds of education:  material, human and spiritual.  Material education perfects his physical body and is common to animals as well as men.  Human education deals with his civilization and progress.  It has to do with the social, economic and civic problems of life.  It includes arts, sciences, inventions and all the activities which are essential to man as distinguished from the animal.  Divine education consists in acquiring the divine
page 115
perfections, the awakening of the latent spiritual powers within man.  This is the real education and confers upon man the supreme goal of the world of humanity:  "Let us make man in our image and after our likeness."
Thus, it is evident that man needs an educator who must be perfect in all respects in order to impart this education to him.  This teacher must aid man in the carrying out of physical matters and the establishment of a proper social and civil organization.  He must train the mind, so that it will be able to grasp the reality and purpose of creation, to improve arts, trades and inventions and to master the difficult problems of science; and he must quicken the spiritual susceptibilities, so that he may be freed from self and become illumined with the heavenly attributes of God.
It is clear that no human agency is able to fill this important mission, for since man is unable, in his short lifetime, to acquire perfection in any one of the branches of art, learning, literature or science, how much more impossible is it for him to bestow at the same time perfect material, human and divine education.  Can there be a perfect civilization with an imperfect educator?  Undoubtedly no one but God, the creator, is able to fulfil this great office.  But as man is incapable of knowing God, because it is impossible for the finite mind to comprehend the infinite, this awakening must come through certain channels which are capable of man's comprehension.
These channels are certain men, chosen and prepared by God to express His word in speech and writing and to manifest it in their lives.  These men are likened unto polished mirrors which reflect perfectly the rays of the sun, but which are not a part of that sun, and are known as Manifestations of God.  "The root of all knowledge is the knowledge of God-Glory be to Him!-and this knowledge is impossible save through His Manifestation" [Bahá'u'lláh].
From time to time such a man appears, declares his mission to the world and establishes a civilization-termed dispensation-which lasts for centuries and which becomes the focal point around which the laws and lives of many generations revolve.  This civilization which all the governments on the earth have been unable to found, one holy man establishes without any material aid or support.  For example, Christ, singly and alone, established a cause and founded a union between many diverse communities, which all the kings of the earth had tried to establish and had failed.  History cites many notable examples of this kind, among whom are Abraham, Moses, Muhammad and Christ.
History also shows us that although each one of these educators of the world of humanity was of lowly and humble birth, without schooling or instruction, yet they were endowed with erudition, and the wisest philosophers have not displayed one-thousandth part of the influence manifested by these holy men.  This power was not due to their human attainments but to the divine word which spoke through them.  The divine words of these educators of humanity have certain characteristics which prove them to be from a higher source than man.  It is their direct appeal to the hearts and lives of men, rather than an appeal to the intellects.  The words of a great writer appeal only to the mind of a man, while the word of God, speaking through His Manifestations, appeals directly to his heart or soul.  The soul is the lamp, while mind is the light which comes from the lamp.  Therefore, in order to have illumination the lamp must first be lit.  This word of God has ever enkindled the lamp of humanity.  It has made a resistless advance against all earthly powers, overcoming ignorance and darkness, dispersing former conceptions and superstitions, and creating new ideals and higher morals.  Its permanency has outlasted kingdoms, dynasties and philosophies.
page 116
Whenever one appears in the world, equipped with these qualifications, and by his words and deeds such a result follow, can we not safely acclaim him to be a true messenger of God and worthy of our greatest love and respect?  Shall we remain in the darkness of doubt and denial, as in former ages, or shall we become illumined by acceptance and enlightenment?
"Look ye at the time of Christ; had the people realized that the holy spirit of God was speaking to them through his divine mouth they would not have waited three centuries before accepting him, and now is it meet for you that you are sleeping on the bed of idleness and neglect, while the Father foretold by Christ has come amongst us and, opened the greatest door of bounteous gifts and divine favours?  Let us not be like those in past centuries who were deaf to his call and blind to his beauty; but let us try and open our eyes that we may see him, and open our ears that we may hear him, and cleanse our hearts that he may come and abide in our temples." ['Abdu'l-Bahá]
It is a law of nature that stagnation is the cause of retrogression and death.  Man must always advance and for this purpose God has sent His Manifestations, from age to age, for the guidance and assistance of mankind.  From the time of Adam and Enoch to that of Moses and Christ and down to the present day, such divine leaders have appeared, guiding man through the various highways and byways and leading him through the different stages of development from childhood to the present manhood of the race.  Man has never been without such instructions.  Each one of these teachers gave the same message:  "The Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man", but in the terminologies of the race and the exigencies of the time, and according to the capacity of the people to whom he came.  Each of these messengers had a threefold mission.  First, to fulfil the prophecies of the prophets who preceded him and heralded his coming.  Second, to be the unique source of all divine knowledge and instruction during his dispensation.  Third, to prepare the way for the coming of the great latter-day Messiah, who would establish God's kingdom of "Peace on earth as it is in heaven".
Christ did not establish this kingdom but heralded its coming.  As a proof of this he said:  "I came not to send peace, but a sword", and the Christian dispensation has been one of warfare and strife.
The Christian nations have perfected the deadliest instruments for the cruel
page 117
and bloody destruction of mankind.  One has only to look at the present condition existing in the world and ask himself if it is the divine will of God that nine nations of the world should be at war with one another thus destroying the greatest of all God's handiwork.  The very foundations of our existence have been shaken by division and disharmony, strife and enmity, oppression and inequality.  The conflict of thoughts and ideas is raging; one sees the persecution of the poor and hears the sighs of agony of the wretched.  From all sides sound the discordant strains of the folly and heedlessness of those who have turned from God.  The rights of men, nations and races have been lost in the whirlpool of greed, thoughtlessness and ambition; even the very right of existence is denied to some.  This is indeed the time of calamity and separation of which Christ spoke (Mark 13:8).  "For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom! and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and troubles:  these are the beginnings of sorrows."
In the spiritual world there is a similar conflict.  Theology is arrayed against science, creeds and dogmas deafen the ears of man, and forms and ceremonies blind his sight.  In the United States alone there are one hundred and thirty-two Christian sects, each one professing to have the only true way of attaining the kingdom, thus disobeying the express commandments of all the divine messengers.  In like manner in the eastern world there are antagonizing sects among the Muslims, Buddhists and Hindus, each claiming to be the pure religion of God.
But how can the glorious and heavenly kingdom of God be established amidst this mess without first laying the essential foundation of unity, peace and justice?  Is it not time for a new guide to come and clear away the debris of ignorance and superstition and again make manifest the path of God?
Fortunately there is a ray of hope for the world is aquiver with the longing and expectation of the appearance of the new Sun of Truth, the new peacemaker.  The Jews are expecting the coming of the Messiah; the Christians are looking for the second coming of Christ, and in the eastern world a similar anticipation is prevalent.  The Muslims expect the coming of their promised one, the Imám Mihdí, the Buddhists hope for the coming of the fifth Buddha, the Zoroastrians are longing for Shah Bahrain, and the Hindus await the appearance of the tenth incarnation of truth, called Kalki, while the people of modern and advanced thought are expecting the coming of the Great Master who will right all the conditions of this decadent world.
In order to bring about this change and to cure all the ailments of mankind this Great Master must fulfil certain conditions:  "He must be the educator of the world of humanity; his teachings must be universal and confer illumination upon mankind; his knowledge must be innate and spontaneous, and not acquired; he must answer the questions of all the sages, solve all the difficult problems of humanity, and be able to withstand all the persecutions and sufferings heaped upon him; he must be a joy-bringer and the herald of the kingdom of happiness; his knowledge must be infinite and, his wisdom all-comprehensive; the penetration of his word and the potency of his influence must be so great as to humble even his worst enemies; sorrows and tribulations must not vex him.  His courage and conviction must be God-like.  Day by day he must become firmer and more zealous; he must be the establisher of universal civilization, the unifier of religions, the standard-bearer of universal peace, and the embodiment of all the highest and noblest virtues of the world of humanity."1
page 118
When one sees that all of these conditions are fulfilled in one human temple, then he may safely turn to him for guidance and illumination.
The Bahá'í Revelation brings the fulfilment of all these hopes and conditions to the world.  It is a renewal of religion to man.  It brings the spring-time of a new life and ideals.  In the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The Bahá'í Movement is not an organization.  You can never organize the Bahá'í Cause.  The Bahá'í Movement is the spirit of this age.  It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century.  The Bahá'í Cause is an inclusive movement:  the teachings of all the religions and societies are found here; the Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, Zoroastrians, Theosophists, Freemasons, Spiritualists, et al., find their highest aims in this Cause.  Even the Socialists and philosophers find their theories fully developed in this Movement."
This Movement had its beginning 23 May 1844, with the appearance of a young Persian, called the Báb (the Persian or Arabic word for door or gate) who, although unschooled and untrained, arose among the great doctors of Islám who were ruling the people in spiritual ignorance at that time, and proclaimed himself to be the forerunner of "Him whom God shall manifest."  He taught and prepared the people for this coming during a period of six years, at the end of which time he was martyred by the Muslim clergy, together with thousands of his followers.  Nineteen years after this declaration, Mírzá Hussein 'Alí of Núr, more widely known as Bahá'u'lláh (which means the Glory of God) announced to the world by means of letters to the rulers and crowned heads of all nations, that he was the promised one of all religions and the one whom God would manifest.  He declared that the time was at hand for the "most great peace", the cessation of strife and warfare and the unity and harmony of all the world.  He renewed the word of every prophet as to the oneness and fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and taught the abolition of differences existing between religions.  He suffered the most severe persecutions at the hands of the Muslim clergy and after the confiscation of his property he was banished with a number of followers, first to Baghdád in Asiatic Turkey, then to Adrianople and finally, in 1868, he was sent to the prison city of 'Akká, which lies at the foot of Mount Carmel, the home of the prophets, in Syria.  Here he remained until his death in 1892, but although in constant imprisonment and hardship he was able to spread his message to all parts of the world and leave his Cause firmly, established.  After his departure, Bahá'u'lláh commanded his followers to turn to 'Abbás Effendi, the Centre of God's Covenant, for guidance.  'Abbás Effendi, the eldest son of Bahá'u'lláh-who prefers to be called 'Abdu'l-Bahá (the Servant of God)-went into exile with his father at the early age of nine years, remaining with him until the latter's death, and sharing all his deprivations.  In 1908 after fifty-six years of persecution, hardship and imprisonment, forty years of which were spent in the prison of 'Akká, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was given his freedom by the new Turkish Republic.  Since that time he has been unceasingly at work spreading the glorious message of Bahá'u'lláh.  He has come from the east to the west, visiting many countries of Europe, including England, France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland, and travelling extensively throughout America, awakening the people from their lethargic sleep on the bed of negligence with this call:
"Do you know in what day you are living?  Do you realize in what dispensation you are alive?  Have you not read in the holy Scriptures that at the consummation of the ages there shall appear a day which is the sun of all the past days?
"This is the day in which the Lord of Hosts has come down from heaven on the clouds of glory!  This is the day in
page 119
which the inhabitants of all the world shall enter under the tent of the word of God.  This is the day whose real sovereign is His Highness, The Almighty.  This is the day when the east and the west shall embrace each other like unto two lovers.  This is the day in which war and contention shall be forgotten.  This is the day in which nations and governments will enter into an eternal bond of amity and conciliation.  This century is the fulfilment of the Promised Century."
The East shall become illumined, the west perfumed and the children of men shall enter beneath the all-embracing canopy of the oneness of the world of humanity.
Indeed all the prophecies of the past have been fulfilled by this call, which has gone out to the world from the prison city of 'Akká.  In speaking of this time, Hosea (2:15) said:  "And I will give the valley of 'Akká for a door of hope."  Solomon (Eccl. 4:14) said:  "For out of prison he cometh to reign."  Micah (7:12) spoke:  "In that day, he shall come to thee from Assyria."  Isaiah (35:2), that:  "Carmel and Sharon they shall see the glory of the Lord"; and Christ (Matt. 24):  "For as the lightning cometh out of the east and shineth even to the west, so shall the coming of the son of man be."  Again there are many utterances of the prophet Muhammad regarding 'Akká.  He said to one of his followers, Ibn Mas'úd:  "The greatest of all sea-coasts in the sight of God is Ascalon, but 'Akká is greater than Ascalon; the greatness of 'Akká to Ascalon and all other sea-coasts can be compared with the greatness of Muhammad to all other prophets.  Be mindful of what I say unto you concerning a city which lies between two mountains (Carmel and Lebanon) in Palestine in the midst of a plain which is called 'Akká."  To Ons, another follower, Muhammad said:  "I inform you about a city on the coast of the white sea (the Mediterranean) which is called 'Akká; anyone who remains there seven days, God will regard him as the associate of Elijah and God will redeem him from the gnashing of teeth in the day of resurrection."  Again, "Blessed is the one who has visited 'Akká and blessed is the one who has seen the visitor of 'Akká", and many other similar utterances.
These three divine men (the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá) have not only fulfilled the spiritual prophecies of all the former religions, but they have manifested by their words and deeds all the true qualities and requisites necessary to the divine and perfect educator.  The Báb, a young merchant, untrained and unschooled, was able, at the age of twenty-five, to confound the most erudite doctors of the religion of Islám.  Alone, he was able to withstand all the great men of religion and state who arose to exterminate his life and teachings, and he produced a great change in the corrupt morals, thoughts and customs of Persia.  At that time, when the persecution, pillage and massacre of the Báb's followers was at its height, Bahá'u'lláh arose to promulgate his teachings.  Although a person of noble birth, he had never studied in any school nor associated with the learned men of religion, yet he manifested such knowledge and perfection that all the people of Persia marvelled at his wisdom while his enemies spoke of him as "the renowned Bahá'u'lláh"  He was exiled our times and for fifty years he was exposed to the gravest dangers and persecutions, yet in that decadent and declined civilization of Persia, he advanced teachings and ideals that were unheard or unthought of even in our western civilization.  He proclaimed:  The oneness of the world of humanity; the investigation of truth so that no one should blindly follow the beliefs and superstitions of his forefathers; the oneness of God and the oneness of all religions; that the purpose of religion is the creation of unity, harmony and accord amongst men and if it fails in this, irreligion is better than religion; the agreement of religion and science, for that which is not in accord with
page 120
science is superstition; the equal rights of man and woman; the abolition of religious, sectarian, sectional, denominational and patriotic prejudices-"Glory is not his who loves his country, but glory is his who loves his kind"; the non-interference of religion and politics; universal peace amongst nations, races and religions; a universal language; the pursuit of education and the necessity for every one to engage in some occupation, art or trade, for this will be accounted an act of worship before God; the solution of the economic problem of the world and the organization and establishment of Houses of Justice for the administration of the law and the means of philanthropic and social betterment; in fact, all the needs and demands of our present civilization have been provided for in the writings of Bahá'u'lláh and the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who without any opportunity for education, has never failed to answer convincingly the questions of the most learned philosophers, religionists and scientific men of the orient and the occident, and who by his life of servitude and sacrifice to humanity, has become the means of the realization of these teachings.
Can a just judgement, after reflection and consideration, deny the reality of these educators?  Their Cause invites investigation and their message is for all ears.  Every person whether spiritual or materialist can find his questions and difficulties solved by these educators.  Does it behove us then to turn our eyes from these manifest signs and to shut our ears to the call of God?  It is of the greatest importance, for our future as well as present welfare to investigate the purpose and teachings of these educators and to hearken to their divine call, which has been expressed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá as follows:
"The foundation of Divine Religion is love, affinity and concord.  Praise God that this cycle is the period of illumination!  Minds have made great progress; intelligences have been unfolded; the means of unity and agreement are brought about; communication between the races of men is rapidly established.  Now is the time that all of us may embrace the law of peace and treat each other with honesty and straightforwardness.  Let the religious prejudices be wiped away.  Let the law of racial supremacy be discontinued.  Let political expediencies be done away with.  Let the love of country be superseded by the love of the world.  Let us all deal with each other with infinite kindness.  We are all the servants at the one Divine Threshold.  We are all receiving the rays of truth from the same Sun of Reality.  We must all believe in all of the prophets.  We must all acknowledge the divine authority of all the heavenly books.  We must wash our hearts free of all human prejudices.  We must serve God.  We must propagate the oneness of the realm of humanity.  We must be the cause of the appearance of the perfections in the world of man.  We must not be like the beasts of prey.  We must not allow carnage and bloodshed.  We must regard the blood of man as sacred.  We must not shed the holy blood of man for the paltry earth.  We must all agree upon one fundamental principle-that principle is the oneness of the kingdom of humanity.
"In this age, Bahá'u'lláh has breathed the Holy Spirit into the dead body of the world.  Consequently every weak soul is strengthened by these fresh divine out breathings.  Every poor man will become rich, every darkened soul will become illumined, every ignorant one will become wise, because the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are descending like unto torrents.  A new era of divine consciousness is upon us.  The world of humanity is going through a process of transformation.  A new race is being developed.  The thoughts of human brotherhood are permeating all regions.  New ideals are stirring the depths of hearts and a new spirit of universal consciousness is being profoundly felt by all men."1


VI:16, 31 December 1915
page 121
"The principle of religion is to acknowledge what is revealed by God, and to obey the laws established in His Book."-Bahá'u'lláh
The Word of God2
George O. Latimer
The greatest cause of the disharmony in the world today is the lack of religion; or rather the failure of mankind to understand the meaning of and the reason for religion.  If this were not the case, why are nine civilized nations of the world at war with one another; why are seven great religions bitterly attacking each other; why is there unceasing strife between capital and labour and why are the pillars of our social, political and economic structure being shaken from their very foundation?  Our body politic has ever been based, as history proves, upon the teachings of the messengers of God, and surely these divinely inspired men have not given a false doctrine to the world.  What then is the cause of this present state of affairs, and are we not to blame for the existence of such a condition?  Let us look into the matter with an open and unbiased mind and ascertain the real purpose of religion.
To quote from 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The first bestowal of God in the world of humanity is religion, because religion consists in divine teachings to men, and most assuredly divine teachings are preferable to all other sources of instruction.  Religion confers upon man the life everlasting.  Religion is a service to the world of morality.  Religion guides humanity to the eternal happiness.  Religion is the cause of the everlasting honour in the world of man.  Religion has ever helped humanity towards progress."  By religion, the fundamentals of religion are meant, not the blind imitations, dogmas and creeds that have been added through man's invention and which have ever been the cause of the destruction and retrogression of nations, nay even their degradation.  Again history is our proof for these facts.  These foundations of the religion of God are one and have been laid by the divine prophets through whom the word of God has spoken.
It is the purpose of this discourse to show that this word of God which has been the impetus to all advancement in civilization, is and ever has been fundamentally the same.  "In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God"; but man's refusal to accept and understand this "word" has been the cause of his failure to comprehend the reality and the oneness of all religion.  Bahá'u'lláh has written:  "The Sun of Truth is the word of God, upon which depends the training of the people of thought.  It is the spirit of reality and the water of life.  All things owe their existence to it.  Its man-
page 122
ifestation is ever according to the capacity and colouring of the mirror through which it may reflect.  For example:  Its light when cast on the mirror of the wise, gives expression to wisdom; when reflected from the minds of artists it produces manifestations of new and beautiful arts; when it shines through the minds of students it reveals knowledge and unfolds mysteries.  All things of the world arise through man and are manifest in him, through whom they find life and development; and man is dependent for his (spiritual) existence upon the sun of the word of God.  All the good names and lofty qualities are of the word.  The word is the fire of God, which glowing in the hearts of people, burns away all things that are not of God.  The minds of the lovers are ever aflame with this fire."  And from the pen of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The word of God is the storehouse of all good, all power, all wisdom.  The illiterate fishers and savage Arabs were thereby enabled to solve such problems as were puzzles to eminent sages all through the ages.  It awakens within us that brilliant intuition which makes us independent of all tuition and endows us with an all-embracing power of spiritual understanding.  Many a soul, in the ark of philosophy, after fruitless struggles, was drowned in the sea of conflicting theories of cause and effect, while those on board the craft of simplicity reached the shore of the universal cause by the help of favourable winds blowing from the point of divine knowledge.  When man is associated with that transcendent power emanating from the word of God, the tree of his existence becomes so well rooted in the soil of assurance that it laughs at the violent hurricanes of scepticism which attempt its eradication.  For this association of the part with the whole endows him with the whole, and this union of the particular with the universal makes him all-in-all."
In order to understand the light of this sun of truth one must free his mind from the superstitions of the past, and investigate the reality of the "word" with a fair unbiased mind.  Reality is not multiple and by religion is meant the one law or word of God, ever from the same source, which has been the cause of the establishment of all divine institutions in the world.  According to 'Abdu'l-Bahá this "word" of God has a twofold function and may be separated into two divisions.  One deals with clay and water while the other deals with the heart and soul.  The one has to do with the world of morality-the ethical sublimity of human nature; the other is concerned with the transactions of society and has to do with the material well-being of man.
The first aids him in his advancement toward the kingdom of God.  It is true idealism.  It has ever been the means of quickening man from a material being into a spiritual one.  It is the cause of the "new birth" of which his holiness Christ spoke.  This division has always been one and the same in all religions.  It is the fundamental basis of all and is not subject to change or alteration.  It has been renewed in each prophetic dispensation or cycle; and, in short, can be summed up by the "golden rule" which Christ gave (Matt. 7:12):  "All things therefore whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, even so do ye unto them, for this is the law and the prophets"-which Muhammad proclaimed:  "Let none of you treat his brother in a way he himself would dislike to be treated."-and which again appears in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh:  "O son of man!  Wert thou to observe mercy, thou wouldst not regard thine own interest but the interest of mankind.  Wert thou to observe justice, choose thou for others what thou choosest for thyself."  This is the spiritual, the essential, the eternal side of religion.
The second assists man in his relationship toward society.  It aims at the highest state of material civilization and progress.  It has advanced man from the depths of ignorance to a high stage of enlightenment.  This division, however, has been subject to change and transformation according to the exigencies of time
page 123
and the varying need's of mankind.  Each succeeding prophet has abrogated the existing material law and substituted teachings applicable to the (then present) necessities of man.  This, however, is the practical, the non-essential, the transitory side of religion.
Let us consider for a moment this second part of the Word of God with a keen sight, for it is the misunderstanding of the purpose of these teachings of God that has caused the establishment of many different faiths in the world.  For example, in the time of Noah certain requirements demanded that sea-foods be allowed.  In Abraham's dispensation camel's flesh was a food for man, but in Jacob's epoch it was unlawful.  After Christ, four disciples, including Peter and Paul, permitted the eating of animal food forbidden by the Bible, "with the exception of those animals which had been strangled, or which were sacrificed to idols, and of blood." (Acts 15:20.)  Later Paul permitted the eating of such animals.
During the time of Adam it was permissible for a man to marry his sister, and Abel, Cain and Seth took unto wife their own sister.  In the Abrahamic cycle a certain expedient made it permissible for a man to marry his aunt, as Sarah was the sister of Abraham's mother; but when Moses came and established the law of the Torah these material ordinances were abrogated and changed.  Later Christ came and broke the Sabbath and forbade divorce.  When Moses came to the world there were no houses of correction, no forms of punishment and because of the lawless condition of the people the law of God had to be strict and direct.  Therefore Moses said that an eye was to be taken for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.  He laid down ten commandments for dealing with the murderer.  If a man robbed to the extent of one dollar, his hand was cut off.  It is not permitted in our advanced civilization to carry out these commands.  It is indeed impossible; even the law of capital punishment has become a mooted question.  But when Jesus came he abrogated the law of Moses and substituted the law of love:  If the right cheek was smitten, then turn the left also.  Now in this day Bahá'u'lláh has said:  "If you be slain for God's good pleasure, verily it is better for you than that ye should slay."
Again the tribes that Muhammad came to were in the lowest stages of savagery and debasement.  It was one of their customs to bury their own daughters alive.  A man was permitted to take a thousand women as his property and nearly every husband had at least ten wives.  It was a custom that when such a husband died his sons took possession of each other's mothers.  If a son threw his mantle over his father's wife and said, "This woman is my lawful property," immediately she became his slave and chattel.  In all fairness one may ask, was not Muhammad's law curbing this barbaric state of affairs and making it unlawful for man to have more than four wives an advance over the existing condition?  And now in our present day, 'Abdu'l-Bahá1 has abrogated this law of Muhammad by forbidding polygamy.  In a word these seeming differences are merely alterations demanded by the growth and advancement of mankind.  Time changes and when time changes, the laws must change.  Therefore, it is impossible for us to compare the time of Moses to that of Christ because the condition of the world has greatly altered.
The existence of the world may be compared to the physical being or health of man, and the prophets of God to skilful physicians.  It is impossible for the human body to remain in one state of health, and different diseases occur, which require different remedies.  The Divine Wisdom requires that for every change of condition there will be a change of commands and when diseases change, there will be a change of treatment.  For example, the patient may be in the throes of a raging fever and the doctor will administer a cooling remedy,
page 126
in a few hours the state of the patient may be changed to one of chills.  It is then that the skilled physician changes his remedy and applies a heating or vivifying tonic.  The skill of the physician depends upon his ability to prescribe remedies that will cure the patient in every state of sickness.  The ignorant patient may complain of the lack of skill on the part of the physician when he changes his treatment, saying to himself, "If the first drug was my cure, why did he change, and if it were not my cure why did he recommend it in the beginning?"-but the wise patient is ever submissive and the change of treatment only adds to his conviction and faith in the doctor.  Some constitutions are weak while others are strong, but all need constant care and attention.  The change of remedies according to the state of the patient's condition is a proof of the skill of the doctor.
Today the condition of the world is very grave and serious.  Humanity is sick, socially, economically, [and] spiritually.
page 127
It is attacked by the germs of despotism and oppression; the microbes of injustice and inequality have entered the system, the bacteria of deceit and hypocrisy are multiplying; the savagery of bloody war and relentless strife have gripped and distorted the body; the scourge of license and calumny has left its deep pit-marks; the disintegrating forces of patriotic, social and religious prejudices are attacking man from all sides.  The air has become contaminated with blind dogmas, creeds and superstitions and man's sustenance is befouled by pride, lust and selfishness.  Man is gasping for relief from this disease of repulsion, discord, hatred and separation.  The old teachings are insufficient for today, they cannot cure every disease and are not an ointment for every wound.
Now in this hour of extreme crisis the Divine Physician has again come in the person of Bahá'u'lláh and has given the allaying remedies of attraction, harmony, unity and love.  He has prescribed antidotes, free from all toxins, which have the power to cure our spiritual as well as sociologic sickness.  His medicine is the panacea for every disease in the world today.  The divine healer, Christ, administered to the needs of his time but he did not give his full treatment for he said:  "I have many things to tell you, but you cannot bear them now."  His treatment had to do with the individual, while the remedies of Bahá'u'lláh are for the community at large.  He has diagnosed every sickness of the body of the world and prescribed remedies accordingly.  His treatment is for the body politic and in administering it he says to the world of humanity:  "The progress of man depends upon faithfulness, wisdom, chastity, intelligence and deeds.  He is ever degraded by ignorance, lack of faith, untruth and selfishness.  Verily, man is not called man until he be imbued with the attributes of the Merciful.  He is not man because of wealth and adornment, learning and refinement.  Blessed is he who is free from the names, seeking the shore of the sea of purity and loving the melody of the dove of virtue."  In a similar way all the demands of our present stage of civilization are provided for and everything that has been a hindrance and a setback to improvement has been cast aside.
These material changes, however, are the non-essentials and have been aptly termed the accidentals of religion.  'Abdu'l-Bahá writes:  "In this great cycle and wonderful dispensation, the majority of those non-essential commands which refer to the body are to be administered by the House of Justice, because this great cycle is of long duration, this great age is vast, continuous and eternal, and since changes and alterations are the characteristic and necessary demands of the world, therefore these material commands will be administered according to the exigencies of the time, but the very foundation of the law of God has never been nor will be altered.  The same foundation, which is the basis of the law of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad and all the prophets, is again to be found in the teachings of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
To sum up what has already been said, we find that the second part of the law or word of God consists of teachings which are concerned with the material welfare of man.  It is composed of instructions relating to prayer, fasting, forms of worship, marriage and divorce, legal processes, the abolition of slavery and the method of treatment for criminals, etc.  This part of the divine law is modified and altered according to the condition of mankind in each prophetic cycle.  While on the other hand the first part of the law of God is never abrogated because it is spiritual and not material truth.  It comprises faith, knowledge, rectitude, justice, piety, righteousness, trustworthiness, love of God, inward peace, purity, severance, humility, meekness, patience, constancy and all the heavenly attributes.  It causes man to care for the wretched, to uplift the downtrodden, to give to the needy and to defend the oppressed.  It makes man treat
page 128
friend or foe alike and as a result one finds the wounded German and French soldiers lying side by side, each being nursed by the same kind hand.  These divine qualities are the lofty attributes of God, they are unceasing and eternal.  In every age this same spiritual law of God has been renewed.  The necessity for the renewal is not that these teachings have entirely disappeared from the world, but that man has lost the spirit of them.  And when the spirit has departed from the essential side of the word of God, then also the non-essential side becomes corrupt and in need of a change.  The world is in this condition at the present time and again God has renewed his spiritual law and altered the material law through the divine instrumentation of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Shall we still keep on suffering or shall we turn to the divine physician and partake of his spiritual treatment?  The divine healer, Bahá'u'lláh has offered the following remedy:  "Ye are all fruits of one tree and leaves of one branch.  O ye discerning ones of the people:  Verily the words which have descended from the heaven of the will of God are the source of unity and harmony for the world.  Close your eyes to racial differences and welcome all with the light of oneness.  Be the cause of the comfort and the advancement of humanity.  This handful of dust, the world, is one home:  let it be in unity.  Forsake pride, it is a cause of discord; follow that which tends to harmony.  Consort with all the people with love and fragrance.  Fellowship is the cause of unity and unity is the source of order in the world."
All other remedies have failed.  Shall we not give this treatment a fair trial?


VI:17, 19 January 1916
page 133
Utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá upon the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár
[Those located elsewhere have been omitted.]
I send you the glad tidings of the erection of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (the Bahá'í Temple) in Ishqábád, with all joy and great happiness.  The friends of God assembled together with rejoicing and conveyed the stones themselves, upon their backs, while attracted by the love of God and for the glory of God.  Soon that great Temple will be completed and the voice of prayer and praise shall ascend to the Sublime Kingdom.
I was rejoiced through your endeavours in this glorious Cause, made with joy and good interest.  I pray God to aid you in exalting His Word, and in establishing the Temple of Worship, through His grace and ancient mercy.  Verily, ye are the first to arise for this glorious Cause in that vast region.  Soon will ye see the spread of this enterprise in the world, and its resounding voice shall go through the ears of the people in all parts.
Exert your energy in accomplishing what ye have undertaken, so that this glorious Temple may be built, that the beloved of God may assemble therein and that they may pray and offer glory to God for guiding them to His Kingdom.
[Translated 30 May 1903]
__________
The vision also signifies that a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will soon be established in America.  The cries of supplication and invocation will be raised to the Highest Kingdom therefrom and, verily, the people will enter into the Religion of God by troops, with great enthusiasm and attraction.
[Translated 9 June 1903]
page 134
The people shall hasten to worship in that heavenly temple, the fragrances of God will be elevated, the divine teachings will be established in the hearts like the establishment of the spirit in mankind; the people will then stand firm in the Cause of your Lord, the Merciful.
[Translated July 2, 1903]
__________
The construction of Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in those regions is of the utmost importance; is conducive to the attainment of the good pleasure of the Almighty and the descent of the confirmation by the Exalted Lord.
[Translated June 14, 1907]
__________
To have it (the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár) built is most important.  Some material things have spiritual effect, and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is a material thing that will have great effect upon the spirits of the people.  Not only does the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár have an effect upon those who build it, but upon the whole world.  In the time of Christ the believers used a room under a house, where they held their meetings.  Moses built the Tabernacle.  Solomon built the first real Temple.  In the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, services will be held every morning, and the Words of Bahá'u'lláh only are to be read.  Mashriqu'l-Adhkár means "Dawning Point of Mention" (Where God is mentioned).
[Table talk given in 'Akká January, 1908]
__________
But it is two or three years since a number of people are making efforts in Chicago, but this has not yet given result, and important persons are exerting themselves and applying for contributions to various quarters.  Now, while the building of this Temple is not yet started or engaged in, if there be the founding of a second Temple undertaken, neither of the two would be ac-
page 135
complished and this failure would weaken the Cause of God.
[Translated 1908]
__________
In reality, the radiant, pure hearts are the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and from them the voice of supplication and invocation continually reaches the Supreme Concourse.  I ask God to make the heart of every one of you a temple of the divine Temples and to let the lamp of the Great Guidance be lighted therein.  And, when the hearts find such an attainment, they will certainly exert the utmost endeavour and energy in the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  Thus may the outward express the inward and the form (or letter) indicate the meaning (or reality).
[Translated 21 May 1908]
__________
His honour ... presented the map of the land of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár on the day of the declaration of His holiness the Supreme (the Báb).  Great joy was obtained thereby and with the greatest care it was considered.  It is indeed a delightful spot worthy of this edifice and building.  However, it must be enlarged yet a little more, so that spacious ground around the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár may afford ample room for a rose garden.
Thank God! the people of God made such a sincere resolution and exerted such a great effort.  It is hoped that all the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful, from all regions and directions, will assist the erection of this building, so that in a short time a wonderful edifice may arise in the name of God and prove the reason whereby the people may examine and investigate the Cause of God and seek the divine teachings.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, though outwardly a material foundation, is possessed of spiritual effect and causes the union of hearts and the gathering of souls.
In the days of the Manifestation, any city, wherein a Temple was founded, afforded the means of promulgation (of the Cause) and the confirmation of the hearts and the confidence of souls, for in those dwellings the Name of God is ever mentioned and always commemorated.  And, for the tranquillity and repose of the hearts, there is no other means save the commemoration of almighty God.
Praise be to God!  The erection of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár has a great effect in all grades (or states).  It was tested in the east and so, evidently and plainly, was it proved.  Even when in a village a house was called the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, it possessed a different effect.  How much more its building and organization!
Therefore, O ye friends and maid-servants of the Merciful!  As long as ye can, endeavour with life and heart, so that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Chicago may soon be built, organized and confirmed.
If all the friends in America, in all cities and hamlets, assist and by the means of a building commission help, this offering will prove most acceptable in the Kingdom of the Sun of the Horizons.
O God!  O God!  Verily, I implore Thee with throbbing heart and streaming tears to aid every one who endeavours for the erection of this edifice, in the building of a house, wherein Thy Name is mentioned every morn and eve.
O Lord,!  Send down Thy benediction upon whosoever served this edifice and endeavoured in its uprising among the sects and religions, and confirm him in every good of mankind; open the doors of riches and wealth unto him and give in heritage the treasures of the Kingdom which perish not; make him the sign of giving among the people and reinforce him by the Sea of Generosity and Bounty, which is surging with the waves of grace and favour.
Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Bountiful!
[Translated 4 July 1908]
__________
The believers of God in America, one and all, must unitedly make an effort, so that the Temple of God will be built in Chicago, then, afterwards, it will be built in other localities. ...
page 136
Regarding the building of the Temple in Chicago, both of you display the utmost effort, that is, effort in encouraging and inspiring the believers and the maidservants of God, so that they may assist in the matter with generosity and thus very soon this Temple will be erected.  This matter is of great importance (utmost importance).
[In 'Abdu'l-Bahá's own handwriting]  In Ishqábád, the believers of God made the erection of the Temple conducive to affinity and unity, so that it really became the cause of oneness of the Word.
Ye also make the erection of the Temple in America conducive to the unity and oneness of the believers, of the maidservants and servants of the Merciful, so that, in one thought, one aim, they engage themselves in the building of the Temple.
[Translated July 1908]
__________
Some of the souls are not aware of the importance of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  They think and say:  The other nations have hundreds of thousands of temples, the Christians having as many as a million temples of the greatest structural importance.  What result have they yielded, that now this one Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is said to cause the manifestation of signs and prove a source of light!  One million churches have not yielded any fruit.  What is the one Mashriqu'l-Adhkár going to do?  Furthermore, today, the establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is of paramount importance, but hereafter it shall not be so.  This is the beginning of organization.  It is like unto the first church founded in Christianity.  It is an expression of the elevation of the Word of God.  When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was erected in Ishqábád, its influence was felt in all the oriental countries.  Whosoever heard of it commenced an investigation of the Cause.  Now the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Ishqábád, like an evident banner waves in the world.  And, if, in Chicago, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is established, even as in Ishqábád, then you will see what the recognition of the Cause will do.  Particularly, the arrangement of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is such, that it will exert the greatest effect upon the civilized world, for it has many accessories.  Among them are the following:
A school for orphans, a college for higher scientific education (or higher knowledge), a hospital, a home for cripples, a hospice.
When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, with its accessories, is established in the world, aside from its religious or spiritual influence, it will have a tremendous effect upon civilization.  Besides the religionists who will feel its influence, materialists will not be exempt therefrom.  Moreover it contains divine wisdoms, spiritual effects upon the intellects and thoughts.  Subsequent to its erection these will become evident.
[Table talk given in 'Akká, February 1909]
page 137
Among the most important affairs is the founding of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, although weak minds may not grasp its importance:  nay, perchance, they imagine this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár to be a temple like other temples.
They may say to themselves:  "Every nation has a hundred thousand gigantic temples; what result have they yielded, that now this one Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (is said) to cause the manifestation of signs and prove a source of light?"  But they are ignorant of the fact that the founding of this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is to be in the inception of the organization of the Kingdom.
Therefore, it is important and is an expression of the upraising of the evident Standard, which is waving in the centre of that continent, the results and effects of which will become manifest in the hearts and spirits.  No soul will be aware of this mature wisdom save after trial.
When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was founded in Ishqábád, its clamour affected all the cities of the orient and caused souls to awaken (to the call).  Most of the souls who investigated and heard the explanation were attracted to the Kingdom of God.
Moreover, the accessories of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár are numerous.  Among them are the school for orphans, the great college for the higher arts, hospital, home for the cripples, and hospice.  The doors of these places are to be opened to all sects-no differentiations.  When these accessories are completed, and, by God's help and aid, the departments fully systematized, it will be proved that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is to human society a great bounty and a great blessing.
In brief, through the unlimited bounty of God, I am hopeful that the beloved ones of God in America may be aided and confirmed in founding this mighty and solid foundation and gradually annex thereto its accessories.
Now ye have convened in that centre (Chicago), from other cities of America.  With sincere intentions and lofty endeavours have ye proposed to undertake this mighty affair.  Know ye for a certainty that ye will be confirmed by the aids of the Holy Spirit and that ye will render the Kingdom of God a distinguished service, whereby ye will become dear in both realms and will shine forth as morning stars from the horizon of the Love of God.
This organization of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be a type for the coming centuries and will hold the station of the Mother, and thus, later, in other cities many Mashriqu'l-Adhkárs will be its offspring.
O Lord!  Make these holy souls dawning-points of lights and the manifestations of (Thy) signs.  Make every one a leading corner stone in this great edifice, a pillar of its pillars.
O God!  Although the friends are needy, yet Thou art the Helper, the Supporter, the Rewarder!
These souls have arisen to serve Thee well and have begun servitude.  Confirm them and aid them.  Encourage each by promises of Thy divine favours and make them of the elect.
Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Able, the Giver, the Shining, the Hearer, the Seer!
[Extract from Tablet to Temple Unity Convention of 22-23 March 1909]
page 138
O ye friends of the east and the west!
One of the greatest foundations of the religion of God, the significance of the Word of God and the duty of the believers of God is mutual assistance and co-operation.  For the world of humanity, nay, rather, all the infinite beings exist by this law of mutual action and helpfulness.  Should this law of joint interchange of forces be removed from the arena of life, the existence would be entirely destroyed.
When we ponder deeply upon the connection and interdependence of beings, we clearly realize that the life of every being draws benefit and sustenance from all the other innumerable existences.  This mutual helpfulness is realized either directly or through mediation, and if, for the twinkling of an eye, this confirmation and assistance does not descend upon the living being, that one will become non-existent, for all the existing things are linked together and draw help from each other.  Therefore, the greatest foundation of the world of existence is this co-operation and mutuality.
Liken the world of existence to the temple of man.  All the limbs and organs of the human body assist each other,
page 139
therefore life continues.  When, in this wonderful organism, there is a disconnection, life is changed into death and the parts of the body disintegrate.  Likewise, among the parts of existence, there is a wonderful connection and interchange of forces, which is the cause of the life of the world and the continuation of these countless phenomena.
When one considers the living beings and the growing plants, he realizes that the animals and man sustain life by inhaling the emanations from the vegetable world, and this fiery element is called oxygen.  The vegetable kingdom also draws life from the living creatures in the substance called carbon.  In brief, the beings of sensation acquire life from the growing beings and, in turn, the growing things receive life from the sensitive creatures.  Therefore, this interchange of forces and intercommunication is continual and uninterrupted.
From this illustration, one can see the base of life is this mutual aid and helpfulness; and the cause of destruction and non-existence would be the interruption of this mutual assistance.
The more the world aspires to civilization, the more this most important matter of co-operation and assistance becomes manifest.  Therefore, in the world of humanity, one sees this matter of helpfulness attain to a high degree of efficiency; so much so, that the continuance of humanity entirely depends upon this interrelation.  The believers of God must especially fortify the foundation of this reality among themselves, so that all may help each other under all circumstances, whether in the degree of truth and significances or in the stations of this world of matter and, especially, in founding public institutions which shall benefit all the people, and, still more, the founding of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, which is the greatest of the divine foundations.
Consequently, the friends of God, with the utmost magnanimity, sincerity of purpose and self-abnegation, must help for the building of this supreme foundation.  Now, in the regions of America, the believers of God have resolved to build the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and, while choosing the land in a most beautiful spot, they are occupied in gathering contributions.  Although they will build this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár with the utmost beauty and completeness, yet, for the sake of the communication between orient and occident, the increase of spiritual affection and love and the solidarity of the foundation of unity and concord, all the believers in the east must contribute according to their means, no matter how small the sum may be.  God does not ask from any soul except according to his ability.  This contribution must come from all cities and villages from all the believers of God.  They should send all contributions to this Holy Land, so that they may be forwarded from here to America through a confidential channel.
In brief, O ye friends of God, rest assured that in place of this contribution, your commerce, your agriculture and industries shall be blessed many times.  Whosoever comes with one good act, God will give him tenfold.  There is no doubt that the living Lord shall assist and confirm the generous soul.
O my Lord!  O my Lord!  Illumine the faces of Thy sincere and beloved ones.  Assist them with the angels of Thy manifest victory; make them firm in Thy great path; open before them the doors of blessings through Thine ancient favour, for they give in Thy way whatever they have, protecting Thy religion, assured in Thy mentioning, sacrificing their souls for Thy love, giving what they have for Thy beauty, so that they may gain Thy good pleasure.  O my Lord, destine for them inexhaustible compensation, never failing bounty and divine outpouring.
Verily, Thou art the Confirmer, the Assister, the Generous, the Giver, and the Merciful.
[Translated 24 August 1909]
page 140
I hope that all of them may become assisted in the service of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, so that this divine Institution may be raised in that country, and the melody of Mashriqu'l-Adhkár may awaken the sleepy ones.
[Translated 31 October 1909]
page 143
You have written that a sum of money is raised to be contributed toward the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  Ask ye of God that the American believers may become assisted in the building of this great Temple.
[Translated 4 March 1911]


VI:18, 7 February 1916
page 153
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Ishqábád
Charles Mason Remey1
Washington, D.C., 12 October 1908
To the House of Spirituality of Bahá'ís, Chicago, Ill.
Brothers in the service of Abhá:
As you have arisen for the construction of the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in America, and, as I have recently visited Ishqábád and seen there the great Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of the east, of which we in the west have heard so much, I take it upon myself to write to you a description of this edifice, hoping to share with you the great blessing of meeting with the friends in those parts and of beholding this Temple which is a testimony of their sacrifice and unity.
As you know, Ishqábád is in Russian Turkistán, just north of the Elburz mountains, which separate the desert plain of western Turkistán, on the north, from Persia on the south.  The city itself lies on the plain a short distance from the mountains, which here are quite rugged and rocky.  The town is quite modern in aspect, being laid off with gardens and broad streets, which meet at right angles.  Rows of trees along the sidewalks remind one of a western city, while the buildings and the waterways, which flank the streets and are fed with water coming from the nearby mountains, are strikingly oriental.
I could hardly believe that this city had sprung up almost entirely during the past half-century.  It was but a huddle of mud huts, when Bahá'u'lláh first directed some of his followers to settle there.  Now this is replaced by a large and prosperous city of buildings of brick and stone.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár stands in the centre of the city, surrounded by a large garden, which is bounded by four streets.  It rises high above the surrounding buildings and trees, its dome being visible for miles, as the traveller approaches the city over the plain.  The building in plan is a regular polygon of nine sides.  One large doorway and portico, flanked by turrets, facing the direction of the Holy City ['Akká], forms the principal motive of the facade, while the dome dominates the whole composition.
The walls of the Temple are of brick covered with a firm and hard stucco,
page 154
which in that climate resists quite well the action of the elements, while the floors are concrete supported by iron or steel beams.
In plan the building is composed of three sections:  the central rotunda, the aisle or ambulatory which surrounds it, and the loggia which surrounds the entire building.
The interior of the rotunda is five stories in height.  The first or main floor story consists of nine arches, supported by piers, which separate the ambulatory from the rotunda proper.  The second story consists of a similar treatment of arches and piers and balustrades, which separate the triforium gallery (which is directly above the ambulatory) from the well of the rotunda.  The third story is decorated with nine flank arcades, between which is a shield upon which is inscribed, in Persian characters, "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá".  The fourth story contains nine large windows, while the wall of the fifth story, which is not as high as the others, is pierced by eighteen bull's-eye windows.
Above, there is the dome which is hemispherical in shape.  The rotunda from the floor to the top of the dome is elaborately decorated with fret work and other designs, all in relief.  We were
page 155
told that the ultimate aim was that colour and gilding should be added to this interior decoration.
The inner dome is of iron or steel and concrete, while the outer dome or roof is entirely of metal-the intention is that this shall be gilded.
The main portico of the temple is two stories in the clear, while the loggias, which surround the building, are on two floors, the lower being on the main floor level, while the upper one is on the level of the triforium gallery.  This upper loggia is reached by two stair-cases, one to the right and one to the left of the main entrance, and the gallery is entered from the loggia.
On the main floor the principal entrance is through the large doorway, but there are also several inner doors, which connect the ambulatory with the loggia.  An abundance of light is admitted through the windows in the upper part of the rotunda, as well as through the windows of the upper gallery and ambulatory, which open upon the loggias.
The Persian style of architecture has been used in treating the details and decorations of the buildings.
At present the stucco work is not quite completed.  The interior of the rotunda is finished, but the decoration of the loggias and gallery and ambulatory is only done in part.  However, the work is continuing and it will not be long before all will be complete.
From what I saw and heard in Ishqábád, I found that those believers who superintended the building of the Temple were competent business men and that, although they had undertaken a large enterprise, every possible economy was made, yet at the same time no expense seemed to be spared when necessary for the beauty and solidity of the building.
The layout of the garden is not yet complete.  Nine avenues of approach lead to the Temple.  The main avenue of the nine, leading to the entrance portico, will be entered from the street by a monumental gateway.  Last July they were completing the plans for this principal gateway of the grounds.
At the four corners of the garden are four buildings.  One is a school.  One is a house, where travelling Bahá'ís are entertained.  One is to be used as a hospital, and the other is for workmen, storage, etc.  Much of the property in the immediate vicinity of this enclosure belongs to Bahá'ís, so the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is the centre of the community materially, as well as spiritually.
That which impressed me more than all else, as I stood before this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, was the fact that the Bahá'ís of the east had all worked with one accord and had given freely toward its erection.
The Temple in America can be accomplished only as we give up self and unite in this service.  The beloved in the east made their offerings and left them with all personal desires upon the altar of sacrifice.  Now we in this country must do likewise.  We need something more than money for the Temple.  It must be built of the material of sacrifice and cemented together by the spirit of unity.
In the building of the Temple, every one must lay before God his material offering together with his ideas, desires and aspirations-give them to the Lord completely, and then, as we come together to construct the material building, we will find that we have ample means for the work in hand.
Each one of us has sufficient means, both material and spiritual, for the work which God has given us to perform.  We need not trouble thinking that we may not have enough means, but we should seek to apply to the best advantage the means which God has given us.
Faithfully, your brother in the service of 'Abdu'l-Bahá,
Charles Mason Remey


VI:18, 7 February 1916
page 156
Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí, the Great Afnán
Charles Mason Remey1
1 January 1916
Mrs Corinne True, Chicago.
My dear friend,
You have asked me for some information regarding the life of the venerable Afnán, or the great Afnán, as he was sometimes called in the orient, under whose service of direction, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was built in Ishqábád, Russia.
Afnán, you know, is the term which has been applied to the blood relatives of the "First Point"-the Báb.  Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí was the name of the Afnán of whom I write.  In the orient, he is known also as Vakílu'd-Dawlih, the title bestowed upon him for public services rendered to his country, Persia.
Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí was first cousin of the Báb.  He was the son of Hájí Siyyid Muhammad, the brother of the Báb's mother.  It was this same Hájí Siyyid Muhammad, to whom Bahá'u'lláh revealed, while in Baghdád, the Kitáb-i-Íqán or Book of Certitude.  So far as I have been able to ascertain, Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí was six or seven years younger than the Báb, and they were intimately associated in boyhood.  The friends in 'Akká and Haifa have told interesting incidents of the youth of the Báb, as described by the Afnán, who recalled vividly the holy personality and spiritual charm of the "First Point."
After many years of service to the Cause in Persia., the Afnán was chosen by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to undertake the work of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in Ishqábád, where he lived for some years, held in great esteem by all who knew him.  Under his direction, the plans for the building were made and the edifice constructed.
I am sending you some pictures which will be of interest to the friends.  One shows Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí the centre of a multitude, including, as you will see by their uniforms, a number of Russian officials.  He is in the act of placing the first stones of the foundation of the
page 157
Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Ishqábád.  Note the decorations he wears.  These were received from the Russian government in recognition of service rendered in offices to which he had been appointed.  Another picture shows the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár under construction.  I send you also a likeness of the Afnán himself with two sons, one upon either side.
In the early summer of 1908, I made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land and 'Akká.  At that time it was not advisable for a westerner to go to the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, so I was entertained for two days in 'Akká in the home of the Afnán.  This was my first acquaintance with him.  Again, in the late spring of 1910, when Howard Struven and I were with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, we had several memorable visits with the venerable Afnán, who was then residing on Mount Carmel, in the German Colony, not far from the tomb of the Báb.  I recall him as a most patriarchal figure with his long white beard, green turban and the flowing robes of the orient.  Though the physical man showed his many years, his smile was radiantly brilliant, giving a glimpse into the chambers of the soul of the inner-the real spiritual man, which knows no age, for it lives eternally.
page 158
Here was Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí spending the evening of a long life of service near to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, on the hallowed slopes of the mountain of God-that spot frequented by the Holy Seers and Prophets of biblical days-that spot from which now, in these latter days, the spiritual religion of God is again being given to the world.
The service of the great Afnán in this world was completed in the summer of 1911, when he passed into the realms beyond, at the advanced age of eighty-five years.
While George Latimer and I were on Mount Carmel a year ago last October (1914), we took a walk one day over the mountain, in the direction of the sea, toward the cave of the Prophet Elijah.  Below us, on the flat between the foot of the mountain and the shore, was the Bahá'í cemetery.  From where we stood, we could look down into the small enclosure, in the centre of which is the simple tomb of Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí, the Afnán.  Upon one side towered the mountain of God, with its sacred places, while upon the other side stretched the blue sweep of the "tideless sea", stretching off to the north, where 'Akká, the New Jerusalem, with its white walls and domes seemed to float like a dove upon the water.  We were struck by the symbol of the dove.  In the past the "dove of peace" has always been represented as soaring above the earth, but here, even while the great war raged, we seemed to see the dove calmly resting upon the earth's surface, affording the refuge, in this age, of spiritual peace, protection and shelter!
Could the mortal Hájí Mírzá Muhammad Taqí, the great Afnán, have a more fitting resting place than amid such holy surroundings?
Faithfully yours in the service of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár,
Charles Mason Remey


VI:19, 2 March 1916
page 165
"Blessing be upon the spirit who departed from the body purified from the doubts and superstitions of the nations"
But concerning that which thou hast asked about the spirit and its everlastingness after its ascension, know that it will ascend at the time of its departure until it enters the presence of God in a form which, throughout all centuries, times, and throughout all circumstances and events of the world will remain unchanged.  It will be everlasting as the perpetuity of the Kingdom of God, His Sovereignty, His Power and His Might, and from it will appear the traces of God, His Qualities, Providences and Favours-the Pen cannot move at the mentioning of this Station as it is in its Supremeness and Exaltation!  The hand of the Divine Bounty will cause it to enter into a station that cannot be comprehended by expression, nor be explained by all the creatures of the existence.
Blessing be upon the spirit who departed from the body purified from the doubts and superstitions of the nations.  Verily, it moves in the atmosphere of God's desire, and enters into the Supreme Paradise.
All the angels of the Supreme Paradise attend and surround it, and it will have fellowship with all the prophets of God and His saints, and speak with them and tell them what happened to it in the Cause of God, the Lord of the Universe.  If anyone could realize what hath been assigned for it in the Kingdoms of God, the Lord of the Throne and the dust, he would immediately yearn with a great longing for the Unmoveable, Exalted, Holy and Abhá station!
Bahá'u'lláh


VII:1, 21 March 1916
page 1
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
This period of time is the Promised Age, the assembling of the human race to the "Resurrection Day", and now is the great "Day of Judgement".  Soon the whole world, as in spring-time, will change its garb.  The turning and falling of the autumn leaves is past; the bleakness of the winter-time is over.  The new year hath appeared and the spiritual
page 2
spring-time is at hand.  The black earth is becoming a verdant garden; the deserts and mountains are teeming with red flowers; from the borders of the wilderness the tall grasses are standing like advance guards before the cypress and jessamine trees; while the birds are singing among the rose branches like angels in the highest heavens, announcing the glad tidings of the approach of that spiritual spring, and the sweet music of their voices is causing the real essence of all things to move and quiver.
O my spiritual friend!  Dost thou know from what airs emanate the notes sung by those birds?  They are from the melodies of peace and reconciliation, of love and unity, of justice and security, of concord and harmony.  In a short time this heavenly singing will intoxicate all humanity; the foundations of enmity shall be destroyed; unity and affection shall be witnessed in every assembly; and the lovers of the love of God at these great festivals shall behold their splendour.
Therefore, contemplate what a spirit of life God hath given that the body of the whole earth may attain life everlasting!  The Paradise of Abhá will soon spread a pavilion from the Pole-star of the world, under whose shelter the beloved shall rejoice and the pure hearts shall repose in peace.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


VII:1, 21 March 1916
page 17
The light of truth
Address delivered by Dr 'Alí-Qulí Khán before the Bahá'í Assembly of West Hoboken, N.J., 28 September 1902.
Truth is the foundation upon which the welfare of society, both temporal and spiritual, is dependent.  To know the full scope of Truth secures man a passport with which to traverse through the boundaries of the world and advance with sure step toward the realm of eternity.  Truth seekers are assiduous students in the school of worldly experience.  They see many ups and downs and experience manifold stumbling blocks and afflictions upon the highway of trials which lead man to the destination of perfection.  Every day life puts unthought of problems and questions to man, which are beyond his power to solve.  But when, through suffering and hardships, Truth is attained, it endows man with a key to every enigma of life, and traces unto him a plain way to every fairy mansion sequestered here and there throughout the vast desert of time.
Now that we know that the Truth is the only thing worth having, we must buy it at any price.  The Truth should be found and known through the heart and not through any of the outward senses.  It should be perceived through insight and not sight, for the sight sees imaginary things as realities, considers the mirage of the desert as running water and takes a shifting shadow for a substantial form.  The outward senses rather mislead us than direct us to the Truth.  When we look at things from the outward sense point of view, we are improvident and thus led to misjudge them.  In such circumstances we take darkness for light, images reflected in the mirror for realities, and we fail to distinguish the Truth from falsehood.  In other words, to seek after Truth through the instrumentality of outward senses, leads us to worship horizons-not the sun-and to judge by the appearance of the lamp and candle.
To illustrate this point, let us look back 1900 years ago when the whole world was in quest of Truth.  In search of Truth all were exploring the dark recesses and nooks of the different sides of life through the help of the torch of outward senses, with the exception of a very few who sought after it and had for a guide the shining light of insight and inner perception.  Then when the "Messianic Sun" dawned from the horizon of the "Man of Nazareth", those few who sought after the Messiah through the help of insight found that world-illumining light as clear as the sun in midday and were by no means prevented by the lowly lamp of Jesus in whom that Light had appeared.  On the other hand, myriads of pseudo-seekers, who were escorted by the gorgeous equipage of Greek philosophy and mounted on the steeds
page 4
of phenomenal science and speculation, were entirely veiled from the Truth, and the help of outward senses did no other than to cast them in the bottomless abyss of remorse and ignorance.  The few, who sought only for the Light, attained to never-ending life, while the many who judged the Light by the outward appearance of the lamp, were submerged in the sea of everlasting death.  The former became the goal of kings and queens, but the latter became the shame of nations, and their names remained in the world's history as a subject of universal derision and disdain.  Peter became the custodian of divine mysteries, while Caiaphas became a true symbol of human abomination.
Everything in the world, such as tree, ocean, light, man or beast, has a poor beginning.  For instance, the beginning of a tree is a seed, that of the ocean a drop, that of sunlight the dim twilight, that of man the embryo, and that of beast, an insignificant speck of mere potentiality.  Just as the twilight, the drop, the seed and the embryo have severally the potentiality of becoming a midday sun, an ocean, a stately tree and a perfect man, likewise, a discerning man sees and realizes a movement of nineteen hundred years duration in the lowly man of Nazareth, the extinction of polytheism and idolatry in the illiterate man of Arabia, and the establishment of the Universal Peace and general emancipation of mankind in Bahá'u'lláh, the noble man of Persia.
Philosophy and clear thinking teach that everything accidental and visible is an effect and is the outcome of a cause.  The appearance and life of things begin with the existence of their causes.  Though causes are ideas and pre-existent to the effects which are forms, yet the latter are inseparable from and contemporaneous with the former.  For a further illustration of this fact, I quote the following from the words of Emerson, the literary and moral genius of America.
"Cause and effect, means and ends, seed and fruit, cannot be severed; for the effect already blooms in the cause, the end pre-exists in the means and the fruit in the seed.  The change which breaks up at short intervals the prosperity of men are advertisements of a nature whose law is growth."
Also the same authority has said:
"Thought and form are equal in the order of time; but in the order of genesis, the thought is prior to the form."
One day when in 'Akká, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, speaking of the mentioned fact and explaining that the possibility of every effect is latent or deposited in its cause, gave the following illustration:
"A wise man when looking at an egg, sees in it the whole form of a bird; he sees the beak, the claws, the plumage, the wings and the eyes, as well as the song and melody of the bird; but a child or an unwise man sees nothing but the egg, even unable to go any further than the outward shell and appearance."
Thus it was through the innate Light of Truth and divine power manifest in the "Lowly Nazarene", that he said:  "Verily, I have overcome the world," while the multitude, who were blind to this fact judged Him from His outward humility and poverty and laughed at His words in derision.  Woe unto man if he relies upon his outward senses and judges things according to their appearance!
The life of vegetation begins in the seed, and the seed bursts forth in early spring through the training of the vernal shower and gentle breezes.  So is the case with the religious growth.  It begins with the rise of a perfect man who represents that Invisible Sun of Truth in its fullness and perfection.  The rise of such a man puts a period to the old cycles and opens the paragraph of a new dispensation.  His rise is the spiritual spring-time, through the refreshing breezes of which the sterile desert of the chaotic world blossoms into new life and becomes the envy of the Kingdom.  The
page 5
breezes of the temporal spring-time are but an outcome of ethereal vibrations and fluctuations, while the breeze of this divine vernal season is the pure breath of the Holy Spirit which imparts everlasting life upon the dead souls of mankind.  It is the rise of this perfect man which gives rise to ideal resurrection and calls forth the mouldering bones of dead humanity from the graves of inadvertence and superstition.
The rise of this man revolutionizes the old school of pride, self-exaltation and love for temporal leadership, and establishes the flourishing institution of meekness, self-abnegation and servitude upon the well-made foundation of love and truth.  The rise of this man brings to light the falsity of so-called knowledge, and removes the covering from the face of misunderstood facts.  All depend upon Him for "He is all in all", and all spring forth from Him, for He is the source of Life.  He is the "Alpha and the Omega", the beginning and the end, the manifest and the hidden.  For He is the manifestation of that Essence who was from the beginning before which there was no beginning, and will continue to be until the end beyond which there is no end.  To know Him is to know God; to adore Him is to adore God; and to love Him is to love God.  For He is the most perfect and clear mirror upon which the rays of the Invisible Sun are reflected and it is only through that Mirror that man can behold the radiance of that Sun and be benefited by its life-imparting heat.  He is He, whether He claims servitude, divinity, prophethood, sonship, fatherhood or manhood.  In whatever clothing He may appear, the prudent will recognize Him, and in whatever tongue He may speak, the spiritually minded will hear Him and will distinguish Him from importers.
Thirty-four hundred years ago, when the whole world was covered with the wintry frost of ignorance and idolatry, and the children of men were submerged in the sea of darkness and imagination, the Supreme Ordainer saw fit to purify the mirror of the phenomenal existence from the dust of barbarity and deliver mankind from the prison of fabulous beliefs and abominations.  He selected an ordinary man of the desert and made him the means for the execution of His work and honoured him with the robe of prophethood.  The shepherd saw the fire of "Verily, I am God" in the burning bush on the Sinai of knowledge and was favoured with the rod of command.  He was chosen from among the whole world to be the bearer of the divine Message and to enact the supreme Law for the guidance of a certain number of mankind.  He was commanded to release the children of Israel from the tyranny of arrogant Pharaohs and to remove the yoke of slavery from their necks.  That man of God, that Law Giver, that interlocutor of God, directed by the divine Light, betook himself to the city of darkness and delivered the Message of His Lord to him who was the most powerful king in the history of that age.  He discomfited the hosts of the magi with the white hand of argument and swallowed the snakes of imagination with the serpent of Truth.  A shepherd, destitute of any material influence, learning, affluence or hosts, suppressed the power of kings, silenced the men of sciences, and imparted the wealth of Law and Truth to the Pharaoh-ridden slaves, termed the Jews.  He directed them to the Land of Promise, and established them in the covenanted country in fulfilment of the Words of God to the Patriarch.
When we follow the history of the Jews from the rise of Moses down to the day of Jesus, we are continually struck with amazement at the considerable change brought upon these slaves of Pharaoh and at the great events and occurrences which mark the Hebraic cycle.  For the Word of God, through Moses, illumined that benighted people
page 7
with the light of God-knowledge and honoured them with the title of "The Holy People".  That unfortunate race, who were trampled under the feet of tyranny, became the envy of kings and gave rise to great chiefs and prophets.  They locked up the fate of the world under the seal of symbols and set forth the events of the future world of religion and the appearance of the Final Reformer, in the language of prophecy.  Every century of this long cycle was lighted with a prophetic lamp who admonished and warned them and awakened the spirit of expectation in their hearts for the coming of the Messiah.  When again the divine Law fell a victim to the misinterpretation of man and the priestly influence found prominence over Truth and sanctity, the children of Israel became stripped of the Robe of Holiness and the mirror of their hearts was stained with the filth of pagan philosophy and Phoenician idolatry.  Thus their unity changed into division, their harmony into discord, their justice into oppression, their chastity into wickedness, until finally they entitled them-
page 8
selves to a long degradation, suffering, powerlessness and humility, which the time had laid in store for a near future, as a result of their error and inadvertence.
According to my honourable teacher, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, when we carefully study the writings of the Jewish prophets, we will find that all of their prophecies point to two great events in connection with the children of Israel.  The first are facts foretelling the degradation of the Jews, their scattering, their suppression, the desolation of their land and the conquering of the Holy City by the Gentiles.  The second speaks of their salvation, emancipation, the restoration of their land, their gathering together from all parts of the world, and their re-establishment in their inherited country.  So it was in fulfilment of the first of these prophecies that the Father of all good illumined the land of Palestine with the beauty of the Son.  As the Jews did not find His appearance consistent with their own limited minds and dark imaginations, as they did not find Him the literal fulfiller of the signs and tokens given by their prophets concerning the coming of the Messiah, and as the eyes of their hearts were blinded to the Truth and its shining Light, so they ignored His mission, misunderstood His message, persecuted His blessed Being, and finally they crucified that glorious Person who had come to unite the children of men and teach them the Fatherhood of God.  That loving Spirit had come to direct the Jews to everlasting glory and quicken them with the spirit of eternal life, but as they refused to present themselves at the heavenly table of His bounty and satisfied themselves with the transient fruit of this world, therefore that divine Beauty chose the Gentiles to partake of that great Gift, and illumined the pagan Europe with the Light of Truth and God-worship.  He extended the hand of divine confirmation over the children of Greece and delivered them from the pitfalls of mythology.  He abolished their abominable practices and taught them how to work out their salvation and attain to everlasting prosperity.  In His sermon on the mount, He instructed them that meekness and lowliness were the foundation of glory, and plainness and simplicity were the basis of Truth.  He proved to them that philosophy was not the key to spirituality, and that unification and welfare cannot be secured by the intellectual power of man.  While in His day the Greeks considered His teachings as foolishness, yet in their good time these became a framework of their institutions and served as life principles to more than one-half of the population of the globe.  On the other hand, the Jews, depriving themselves of this great favour, fell into division and degradation and many a time their land was trampled under the feet of conquerors.  They experienced calamity upon calamity, hardship upon hardship, and privation upon privation, until finally the Light of Truth appeared in the Lamp of Hijáz to illumine the pagan Arabs of the desert and direct them to the Light of real Truth.
Muhammad arose and set fire to the harvest of Arabian superstitions.  His iconoclastic practice broke the idols of ignorance and barbarity, and his monotheistic principle established the belief in the "Oneness of God".  In a short period of time his religion prevailed in most of the eastern world and brought Chinese, Hindus, Fire-worshippers and pagans to the confession of the divine Unity.  His appearance fulfilled the prophecies of old concerning the abomination of desolation in the Holy Land and the taking away of the daily sacrifice, for during the early decades of his manifestation, Omar, the Caliph and valiant conqueror, gained victory over Jerusalem and entirely expelled the Jews from the Land of Promise, which exile led to the eradication of the daily sacrifice from among the Jews.


VII:2, 9 April 1916
page 9
The light of truth (continued)
According to my honourable teacher, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, the exponents of religion and prophecy have divided the cycles of the world into two long periods:
1.	The dark night of the age of darkness.
2.	The Day of Light, or the Shining Morn, the Latter Day, or the Time of the End.
According to the opinion universally agreed upon by all the religionists, and testified to by the prophecies of the founders of religions, the age of darkness began with history and ended in the fifth decade of the nineteenth century.  The reason why the cycles of the world, which preceded the dawn of the Day of Light, were called "The dark night" lies in the lack of civilization and enlightenment and the barbarity which prevailed in those days.  The world was darkened with the dust of discord, disharmony and injustice, and the gratification of carnal desires and racial pre-eminence was the highest summit toward which the footsteps of mankind were directed.  Countries were so divided from each other that every nation considered the populous and civilized part of the world to be confined within the bounds and limits of its own land, and no man conceived the idea that other nations did really exist in other parts which were unknown to him, owing to the lack of communication and knowledge.  Therefore, the Supreme Ordainer did not see fit to rule the disconnected chaotic world of humanity with one universal religion, for in those dark days the capacity of mankind was not developed enough to receive the Message of the kingdom of Abhá, and the eye of benighted humanity would be blinded and dazzled by the world-illuminating Sun which was ordained to dawn at the time of the end and bring about the first millennium of the Day of Light.  He sent forth different prophets to the different parts of the planet to deliver the people of various tastes, lands, nationalities and communities, the one message of Truth, and to raise a point of contact between man and his Maker.
The most ancient religion of the world, so far as the obscurity of the ancient history allows us to investigate, was Sabeanism, founded by Enoch, the seventh after Adam.  This religion embodied the creed of the old Egypt, Roman paganism, Greek mythology, Chaldean star worship, Arabian heathen worship and idolatry, as well as the ancient religions of some of the other nations of the world.  A remnant of this religious community is still extant in the south-western part of Persia, called the Sabis, and another embodies the present Phetish worship in Africa.
page 10
Afterwards, the Creator sent Confucius in China, the Buddhist and Brahmin prophets in India, Zoroaster in Persia, Moses in Egypt, Jesus in Palestine and Muhammad in Arabia.  Each of these Divine men, assisted by the Invisible Power, worked in the amelioration of the characters and morals of their respective nations.  They enacted laws and ordinances upon which the welfare and prosperity of every community is founded and bequeathed to them a Divine Book containing direction and enlightenment.  Each of these prophets severally gave signs and tokens concerning the Appearance of God in the flesh, and prepared his people to look for the coming of that Great Day, which, as the dawn of Divinity, is the end of the long cycle of darkness and the beginning of the glorious Day of Light.  Just as the Jewish prophets prophesied that at the time of the end men shall see God upon the earth; just as the Gospels foreshadowed the appearance of the Father with the Son; just as Muhammad promised the Islamic dispensation that they should see God and appointed the time of his appearance to be 1,260 years after his own rise, so, also, the Chinese and Indian prophets, as well as Zoroaster, made the same kind of prophecies and gave the exact date and the country in which that Glorious Light should appear.
In fulfilment of the prophecies, about sixty years ago, the Báb-the precursor of the Lord-appeared in Persia, fulfilling the mission of the Elias of the Jews; the John of the Christians; the Mihdí of the Muslims; and prepared the people for the descent of the heavenly table which he said would appear nine years after his own rise.  He proved the validity of his mission through his wondrous work, and laid the foundation of the millennial cycle upon the mutilated bodies of thousands who died martyrs for his sake, and cemented them together with the congealed blood of his blessed heart which was shed in the path of his beloved one, in the seventh year of his ministry.
Then the Word of the Almighty became incarnate in the Temple of Bahá'u'lláh, the Glory of God; the heavenly Father appeared, the sun of the final salvation dawned, and the deliverer arose from the land of Persia to emancipate the children of man from the fetters of oppression, and to bring about the universal and practical unification of the world and nations, which task has been ever beyond the power of any man of learning, affluence, influence and temporal authority.  Although the blessed person of Bahá'u'lláh was, from the beginning, subject to fetters and oppression and exiled from city to city, owing to the hatred and jealousy of the antagonistic fanatical clergy of Persia, yet he occupied all of his blessed days in enacting laws and ordinances for the reformation of the world, and opened the seal of the prophecies of old, which were ordained to be unlocked and unfolded to mankind at the time of the end, through the supreme pen of the glorious Lord.
Day by day the penetration of his Word increased and his followers grew in number until finally the people of tyranny determined to exile him to the desolate land of 'Akká, located within a few miles of Mt. Carmel which was prophesied by the prophets to be the footstool upon which the Lord shall stand at the time of the end.  Thus the prophecies of old were fulfilled and the Holy Land became the land of the Lord, toward which all mankind shall look for light and guidance.  The Father came to gather his children together from all parts of the world and to remove racial differences and religious fanaticism which had for long periods marred the prosperity of mankind and had darkened the mirror of brotherhood with the dust of clerical narrowness and national prejudice.  This human development ceased to be controlled by human action, and God, himself,1 came to appoint the criterion through which truth and righteousness are distinguished from false-
page 11
hood and inadvertence.  He revealed the message of God to all the crowned heads of the world and reminded them of the appearance of the King of the divine kingdom to whom kings and subjects should equally bear allegiance, and from whom all races should seek light and guidance.
Thus, in a short space of time, his great cause was spread throughout the world and thousands out of all nations and religious communities acknowledged his Word and saw the beauty of their Lord in the temple of man.  His life-imparting breath diffused the breeze of regeneration throughout the graveyards of humanity and resurrected the spiritually dead from the tombs of heedlessness and desire.  When his blessed person desired to return to his invisible kingdom and to ascend to the heaven of the unseen realm, he bade farewell to the court of phenomena and in the year 1892 he repaired to the supreme horizon.  Before his departure, he wrote his blessed book of his covenant with his own hand and sealed it with his own seal, in which book he entered into a Covenant with all the people of the world, including his own household and "branches", that after his ascension, they should unanimously bear allegiance to and obey his eldest son, the Greatest Branch, the Mystery of God, the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Thus, in fulfilment of the prophecies, the beauty of the son appeared in the temple of servitude to teach humanity how to serve the beauty of Abhá, and how, through meekness and humility, to attain to his good pleasure.  He stood firm under all kinds of trials and tribulations, and notwithstanding myriads of arrows of oppression are flying toward his blessed person, from all sides and directions, he is constantly teaching humanity to love their fellow creatures and to co-operate in raising the banner of Universal Peace, even at the risk of their lives and property.  He is the exponent of the Words of Bahá'u'lláh; he is the preacher of the sermon of love; he is the lover of mankind; he is the one who was appointed to direct the whole world to the fountain head of peace and harmony.
When we carefully investigate the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, we will find that the subject matter of his scriptures is the unification of mankind and the removal of religious prejudices.  In one of the tablets he has said:  "O people of the world, the pavilion of unity is raised, do not gaze upon each other with the eye of foreignness!  Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch."  Likewise, "Let him not glory who loves his own country but let him glory who loves the whole world."  He has likewise demonstrated that the essential parts of the religion of God are faith and obedience; that these two are inseparable; faith without obedience, or obedience without faith is not sufficient to work out man's salvation.  Love is the mother of faith.  Faith signifies obedience to the commands of God and compliance with His laws and ordinances and is conducive to a pure life, which is the only and greatest fruit that can be gathered from the garden of faith.
Man should prove his faith through deeds and actions, not through words and claims.  If the edifice of faith could be secured upon mere words, every living creature would be accounted of the faithful; even those who fought against the hosts of God and shed the blood of His prophets professed faith by word of mouth.  Faith is the tree, and the fruit thereof is good deeds and actions and pure living.  Faith without deeds is a tree without fruit, which is not worth mentioning.  In this connection it is said by the pen of Bahá:  "In this dispensation the conquering hosts are good qualities and deeds, and the leader of this army is the fear of God.  This is a commander and possessor of all things."  Likewise, in the Tablet of the World,
page 15
He has said, the gist of which is the following:  "Say, O friends:  The tent of the Cause of God is great and it will soon overshadow all the nations of the world.  The day is yours, and a thousand tablets are your evidence.  Arise to assist the Cause, and gird up the loins of endeavour and conquer the hearts and souls of men with the sword of good deeds.  The assister of the Cause is good deeds and their meaning is good morals."  Likewise, "Blessed are those who are adorned with the garment of good deeds."
So in this day 'Abdu'l-Bahá is teaching the same lesson.  His everyday life proves that his only aim is the unification of the world, and his only purpose is to emancipate all mankind from bondage and link them together with the chain of brotherhood.  His favourite teaching to young and old, high and low, is the severance from all else save God, and the reliance upon Him which is the only source of goodness, the axis around whom mercy and bounty revolve.  His greatest hope is to sacrifice his life for the sake of the Father, and to be a tar-
page 16
get for thousands of arrows in love for humanity.  Through his endeavour the Word of Bahá'u'lláh is spread broadcast in the world and the voice of the Lord's Manifestation has reached all nations and communities.  The words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá impart the spirit of life and develop the barren soil of hearts into a delectable paradise of faith and knowledge.
O my brothers, sisters and spiritual friends:  The day is yours.  Avail yourselves of the opportunity and exert yourselves to spread the spirit of love and peace among your fellow creatures, and assist the Cause of your Lord with the hosts of harmony.  A Glorious Sun is shining and the vernal shower is pouring.  The breeze of God is wafting by and the Ocean of Divine Bounty is rolling.  The Ark of Deliverance is sailing upon the Sea of Truth and thousands are reaching the cheerful haven of assurance.  This is a day which was longed for by the holy souls and chosen ones in former cycles, and thousands of kings and queens died in expectation of its appearance.  The same Word which became incarnate thirty-five hundred years ago and quickened the mouldering bones of the Jews with the spirit of eternal life, is again in this day manifest in the temple of man, ready to fill the men of capacity with the bounty of regeneration.  The same Sun which appeared nineteen hundred years ago from the horizon of the Man of Nazareth and made an humble fisherman the custodian of the Unseen Treasury, is again shining and illuminating the whole world with the light of salvation.
In order to thank God for His great bounty, we must co-operate night and day in union and harmony to raise the tent of this Truth among mankind and to plant the banner of Universal Peace upon the summit of the contingent world.  We must cast every enmity and discord into the pit of oblivion and purify our hearts and souls from the least trace of hatred or animosity.  We must see only good in our fellow men, and withstand the hosts of denial with the sword of indifference and kindness.  We must beg of God to endow us with a discerning sight, so that we may see and appreciate the greatness of this day, and thank Him for having mentioned our names in His Book.  We must pray night and day to endure unto the end and be protected from the shock of tests and trials.  Prayer is the wing whereby the soul of man soars upward to the heaven of nearness.  I beg of God to overshadow this great country and its inhabitants under the tent of His mercy, and to protect them from all that is contrary to His good pleasure.  I beg of God to assist them through the angels of His supreme kingdom and enable them to transmit the light of the beauty of Bahá to all parts of the world.
O God!  O God!  Suffer us to live in perfect peace and harmony, to turn our hearts and souls unto the face of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and to enjoy his presence in the kingdom.
Grant that we may serve our fellow men and remove discord and religious fanaticism from among nations.  We are humble; confirm us with the power of Thy Spirit.  We are weak; strengthen us through Thy might, and protect us against that which is contrary to Thy good pleasure.  Quicken us with the spirit of regeneration and deliver us from the pitfall of superstition.
Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Beneficent, the Source of Great Bounty.  Verily, Thou art the Clement, the Merciful!
We rely upon Thy beneficence, and trust in 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
Blessed are those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.
The servant of 'Abdu'l-Bahá,
(Signed) 'Alí-Qulí Khán
__________
Read before the Bahá'í Assembly of West Hoboken, N.J., 28 September 1902.


VII:2, 9 April 1916
page 14
"If all souls' thoughts were entirely given to holy thoughts of God,
what would become of the world from a commercial standpoint?"
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl's answer to the above question.
Love, faith and being filled with the will of God are not contradictory to the temporal affairs that man has to attend to (that is, we can be filled with the love of God and at the same time look after our worldly life and pursuits which are necessary to guarantee our social welfare and prosperity, etc.), though in the beginning it is difficult for us to realize this state in ourselves, yet this can become feasible and practical, if we obey the laws and ordinances of God.  For instance, consider David:  While he was attentive and watchful over his temporal affairs and worldly dominion to such an extent that he looked after each one of his soldiers, computed their number, arranged their sustenance and means of living, and while he was so alert in arranging administrative affairs that he was not at all heedless of the neighbouring kings and their thoughts-even through outward means-even in such wise that through warfare and battles he strengthened that weak kingdom of the Jews and glorified his people before the eyes of the great kings of Egypt and Assyria-nevertheless, could it be thought that he was meanwhile separated from the love of God?  Or could it be said he was so carried away by temporal occupations and cares as to make him heedless of the commemoration of God?  And could we and you, as some people, bring ourselves to believe that David did sin?
Likewise, consider His Holiness Abraham:  He was a man who led a nomadic life, and possessed large herds and flocks in the desert, and he gained his living by rearing sheep and cattle.  He was so watchful and attentive in the administration of the affairs pertaining to temporal pursuits that nothing escaped his notice.  Although when single and alone, he migrated from the Ur of the Chaldeans, he exercised the utmost care in his worldly affairs, and thus became accounted among the highest men of affluence in Syrian lands; and notwithstanding he contributed personal watchfulness and attention over every single sheep in case of sickness, yet he was not for a single moment heedless of the commemoration of God; so much so, that among all the inhabitants of the world, at that time, he alone was chosen by God as His friend.
Consequently, we and you must likewise exert ourselves, in order to reach such a point in the love of God that the world and its occupations, no matter
page 15
how involving they may be, may not prevent us from the praise of God, nor make us heedless of His commemoration.
Muhammad, the Prophet, has said:  "Man in this world must be so attentive to his worldly affairs and temporal necessary pursuits, that it may seem as though he thinks he is going to live forever in this world, and he must, at the same time, be so submerged in the love of God and occupied with the thoughts of the hereafter, that it may seem as though he is going to die and leave this earth at the very moment."
Moreover, one of the great elements in the laws of every religion, deals with the rules concerning the orderly arrangement and preservation of human society.  One of their solid commands is this:  That man should be engaged in a trade or profession, and should by this means be a cause of tranquillity and peace to others.  Bahá'u'lláh has so emphatically laid down rules concerning the orderly management of mercantile pursuits and professions that he has accounted occupation in such professions as an act of worship on the part of a believer (i.e., according to Bahá'u'lláh, to be engaged in an honourable art, trade or profession, by which ourselves and humanity can be benefited, is an act of worship).
O my dear sister:  Endeavour that man may reach such a point that nothing of this world can prevent him from the love of God, to such an extent that if he goes to sleep, he may have God in his thoughts; if he engages in trade or temporal occupation, he may do it for the purpose of benefiting his fellowmen; and if he walks, he may walk to perform that which is best for the people of the world, and that the more he increases in spirituality, the more he may learn about the well-management of his affairs.  Man must love the world and all the people therein for the sake of its Maker.  Even as the Persian poet sung six hundred years ago:
"In this world I am rejoiced over the One
Through whom the world is rejoiced;
I am in love with all the people of the world,
For all the world belongs to Him."
For a believer, even his worldly and professional pursuit is an act of worship; for an unbeliever, even his activity in the acts of worship is no other than entire occupation with the world and worldly things.  This you have realized in the church, and in the spirit in which many in the church performed their acts of worship.


VII:3, 28 April 1916
page 17
Explanation of Daniel's interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's dream
Lesson given by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, Sunday, 6 October 1901, Chicago.
Interpreted by Dr 'Alí-Qulí Khán
Taken stenographically by Miss Gertrude Bulkema
[King James version inserted for quotations.]
The Holy Scriptures, including the Old and the New Testament, bear and contain prophecies concerning the coming of the Lord in the latter days.  Some of these books contain prophecies that show the exact date of the appearance of the latter days while some others simply give signs and tokens of that glorious day.
Among the books of the Old Testament, only the book of Daniel contains dates of the Manifestation (of Bahá'u'lláh) in this great day, and of the books of the New Testament, only the book of Revelation contains the date of the coming of this great day; while the other scriptural records, containing prophecies and writings, refer to that event an the coming of the Lord.  One of the prophecies refers to the coming of the great day and gives signs of its coming, not dates; and by reading this prophecy, all can judge for themselves that it refers to the day of the coming of the Lord of Hosts in the latter days.
Now I will read that prophecy to you (Isaiah 25:6-7):  "And in this mountain shall the Lord of hosts make unto all people a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined.  And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all people, and the veil that is spread over all nations."
This is a prophecy of things that were to happen in the mountain of God, that all the nations of the earth including the Jaws, Zoroastrians, Muslims, et al, should come together on that holy mountain to partake of food, both spiritual and material; and we find this prophecy was not fulfilled in the day of Jesus nor in another day.  However, it is only in this day of Bahá'u'lláh, since His departure, that all the nations of the earth have come to 'Akká and Haifa, and have partaken of this food, both materially and spiritually.  By the mountain mentioned in this verse is meant Mt. Carmel, which fact is unanimously agreed upon by the learned doctors and others among the Christians, Jews and all the other nations who believe in the Scriptures.  The cities of Haifa and 'Akká are at the foot of Mt. Carmel.  Since the exile of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá to 'Akká, Haifa and Mt. Carmel, all different nations of the earth have partaken of spiritual life and spiritual food on that mountain which has no other meaning than that of the blessings and teachings showered upon them by Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  By the seventh verse:  "And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all
page 18
people, and the veil that is spread over all nations," is meant that by the words of Bahá'u'lláh attracting the hearts of the different nations to the Great Cause, they will become united and the veils and coverings of religious divergences will be rent asunder.
In the eighth verse, of the same chapter, it says:  "He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth:  for the Lord hath spoken it."
By this is meant that he, in His day, will swallow up death, and through the power of his teachings and through the power of His Word will save the people from darkness and ignorance, and thus they will be spiritually saved from unbelief, doubt and suspicions.  By saying, "the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth"-the people referred to in this verse are the Jews.  The Jews were rejected by all nations because of their disbelief and their denial of Jesus Christ in His day; they were humiliated, their kingdom was taken out of their hands, and they fell into a condition of despair; but God promised them that he would bring them together again and would wipe away all the tears from their faces.  They will believe in the Word of God, and thus their hearts will be comforted and consoled by the new teachings of God, and they will no longer be humiliated as they were before this great day.  The humiliation of the Jews was caused by the fact that they rejected Jesus Christ and that they did not believe in him; but in this great day, when they believe in the Manifestation of Bahá'u'lláh, and through his Words they believe in Jesus Christ, then the shame will be taken away from them.  This prophecy concerning the Jews is already fulfilled, even though we are still in the first century of the rise of this Dispensation, inasmuch as up to the present day thousands of the Jews have believed in the Manifestation of God, and by so doing they also believe in Jesus Christ and in the other prophets, and are teaching the Truth of God.
Ninth verse:  "And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us:  this is the Lord; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation."
Inasmuch as the Jews are awaiting the coming of the Messiah, of the Lord, in order to be saved from the humiliation into which they fell because of their denial of Jesus Christ, now we find those of them, who have believed in God, declaring that the Lord has come and that they are saved.
The same kind of prophecies are given in the books of the other prophets in the Old Testament, but they do not give the date of the coming of the Lord.  The only one in the Old Testament who points to the exact appearance of the Lord is Daniel, while the others prophecy concerning the signs of the appearance of the day of the Lord, and by all of these prophecies is meant the coming of the Lord in the latter days.  These prophecies cannot refer to the coming of Jesus Christ inasmuch as with his coming the Jews were not saved.  The prophecies in the book of Daniel, which we are going to interpret now, clearly point to the date when the Lord should appear.  The book of Daniel is based on an historical point of view, especially the second chapter concerning the dream of Nebuchadnezzar and the interpretation made by Daniel that clearly indicates the coming of the Lord in the latter days.  The first chapter of Daniel has no prophecies.  (Here Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl gave a summary of this chapter.)
Now, the second chapter refers to the dream and the other prophecies.  The second chapter begins with the dream of Nebuchadnezzar.  When he awoke, he sent for the wise men to interpret the dream for him.  In that day Babylon was the centre of the east-
page 19
ern civilization and the largest city in the world.  It contained many schools where learned men and educated doctors were teaching all classes of people.  When the learned men came to interpret his dream, they wanted Nebuchadnezzar to explain his dream first.  However, he said.  "No, I am not going to explain the dream." etc.  The Chaldeans answered, "This is something that is beyond the power of the people of the world and beyond the power of the angels, and it is only God Who knows how to tell the dream and the interpretation thereof.  If you want to have the dream interpreted explain it to us so we may know how to interpret it."  This answer made by the learned men, made the king angry and he commanded that all the wise men in Babylon be destroyed, saying, "I have spent much money to educate these people, and now they cannot interpret my dream.  What is the use of spending money and educating them?"
The king's guard went forth to bring all the learned men to slay them.  Among them was Daniel and three of his friends who were brought to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar.  Although the Jewish tribes were holy and chaste people in that day, the divine spirit was only manifest in Daniel.  The people who are the Manifestations of the Spirit or the Word of God are grand and glorious.  Since Daniel manifested the Great Spirit in that day, he was, therefore, a glorious man to look upon so the king's guard did not want him to be slain.  The guard went to Daniel to know what should be done.  Daniel asked the king's guard why the king wanted to slay all the learned men.  Then Daniel said, "Go forth to the king and say that I will interpret this dream for him."  As the king's guard, himself was in favour of the learned men and did not want so many great people to be slain, he went to the king and told him that there was a man among the captive Jews who said he would interpret the dream for him.
Then the king said they should not kill the learned men, but wait until tomorrow.  The king's guard then went to Daniel and said that the king wanted him to explain the dream.
When Daniel and his friends were saved from this imminent danger they went home, and he said, "Let us pray this evening and not sleep; let us beg of God to enlighten me."  He prayed that night and after he went to sleep he had a dream in which God explained to him everything concerning the dream.  God had manifest Himself to Daniel and told him about the dream and its interpretation.
The next morning he went with the king's guard into the presence of the king, and after chanting praises and thanks to the king, he began to explain the dream.  He said:  "Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image.  This great image, whose brightness was excellent, stood before thee; and the form thereof was terrible.  "This image's head was of fine gold, his breast and his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs of brass, His legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part of clay.  Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake them to pieces.  Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken to pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors; and the wind carried them away, that no place was found for them: and the stone that smote the image became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth.  This is the dream; and we will tell the interpretation thereof before the king.  Thou, O king, art a king of kings: for the God of heaven hath given thee a kingdom, power, and strength, and glory.  And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand, and hath made thee ruler over them all.  Thou art this head of gold.  And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee [silver breast], and another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth.  And the fourth kingdom shall be strong
page 22
as iron:  forasmuch as iron breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things:  and as iron that breaketh all these, shall it break in pieces and bruise.  And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potters' clay, and part of iron, the kingdom shall be divided; but there shall be in it of the strength of the iron, forasmuch as thou sawest the iron mixed with miry clay.  And as the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong, and partly broken.  And whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry clay, they shall mingle themselves with the seed of men: but they shall not cleave one to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay.  And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.  Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter: and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure."
This was the dream of the king, and the king hearing Daniel, fell down and worshipped him.  Then he said, "I will give you the interpretation of the dream."
In all the writings and the prophecies, both in Revelation and Daniel, by "kingdom" is meant the appearance of a religion of God.  A worldly government and a worldly kingdom, according to the terminology of Revelation and Daniel, is represented by a "beast".  For
page 23
instance, Daniel says:  "I saw a lion in a dream."  By "lion" is intended a government, and by "sheep" was intended the old Persian government.  In this dream Daniel explains to the king that from the days of that king until the day of the appearance of the kingdom of God, four great kingdoms will appear on the earth, i.e., four great worldly religions.  Since the day when the king saw this dream and Daniel interpreted it to him, until the dawn of Bahá'u'lláh, four great kingdoms appeared, both in Chaldea and in Syria, and by these four governments is meant four religions.
According to history, from the day of Daniel until the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh, four kingdoms appeared in Chaldea and Syria, in those eastern lands.  The religion held by the people in the time of Nebuchadnezzar was the Sabean religion and that religion prevailed throughout the world among all nations except the Chinese and the Hindus.  This religion was prevalent in the world until the day when Chaldea was subdued by Kirsh, the king of Persia.  Then this religion was crushed by the appearance of the Christian religion which grew through the instrumentality of Roman emperors.   Then the kings of Persia came forth and waged war with the Roman emperors and then they subdued them and took possession of their lands and Syria and the Holy Land.  Even Chaldea was subdued by the Persian kings, even this land where Nebuchadnezzar had his dream, was subdued by the Persian kings, and then the kings of Persia, who were always at war with the Roman emperors brought the religion of Zoroaster and made it a prevalent religion in those parts for four hundred years.  After four hundred years, the Zoroastrian religion was destroyed by the appearance of Islám, the rise of Muhammad, when the Zoroastrians were subdued by the Islamic armies.  Islám was such a violent religion that it destroyed and ruined most of the countries.  This religion was afterwards divided into two religions, the Sunnís of Turkey, and the Shiites of Persia, but both of them were Muslim.  The religion of Muhammad was divided into two divisions-and then the kingdom of God appeared in this day.  This heavenly stone, this stone that was cut without hands, first destroyed the toes made of clay, which refers to the religion of the Shiites.
Now I have told you about the dream and have given you the history of the kings who ruled on the lands of Chalden and Syria.  Now we will read the words of Daniel, beginning with the thirty-seventh verse of the second chapter of Daniel, interpreting the dream of the king.  The thirty-eighth verse reads:  "And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand, and hath made thee ruler over them all.  Thou [art] this head of gold."
It is said in this verse that all the fowls of the heaven and the beasts of the field were given in the hands of Nebuchadnezzar, while he was only the king over Chaldea and he did not take possession of Europe and Africa.  By this is meant the religion that was prevailing in the day of Daniel-the Sabean religion.  It refers to his religion and not to his material kingdom.  Enoch was the institutor of Sabeanism, and from the time of Enoch until the time of Moses, all the people were under this religion.  Their religion was first founded on unity and in the worship of God, but by and by they began to think that by worshipping and praying to the stars they would attain to glories.  They used to bring images of the stars and hang then in their churches and worship them, This religion was also prevalent in Europe and also had large temples built in the name of Venus and the stars.  Then Christianity crushed out this religion.
page 24
Its destruction in the eastern part of the world and in Persia was made by the appearance of the religion of Zoroaster.  There are only about five thousand families of this religion still living in the western part of Persia.  Some of the people of Africa are also believers in Sabeanism.  The ruling of Nebuchadnezzar in verse 38 refers not to his material government, inasmuch as his material government was not a prevalent government throughout all the world as is understood by this verse, but by this is meant his religion which was the prevalent religion of the world in that day.
Then the thirty-ninth verse:  The second religion was Christianity.  Although Christianity was pure and exactly like gold, which was seen by the king in his dream, its number did not subdue the number of those who were believing in the Sabean religion; therefore Christianity is interpreted by silver.  Christianity was pure, glorious and grand, but the number of people who believed in Christianity in those days was less than the number who believed in Sabeanism, and although Christianity subdued Chaldea, soon after it was removed from that part of the country.  In this thirty-ninth verse we read:  "And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth."
By brass is meant the condition of the religion of Zoroaster; although it was inferior to Christianity, it still a prevalent religion, next to Christianity in those days.  If you want to know the extensive country over which the Zoroastrian religion was ruling, you should take up the history of Darius and Cyrus.  This will give you an idea of the prevalence of Zoroastrianism in those days.
Verse forty:  "And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron:  forasmuch as iron breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things:  and as iron that breaketh all these, shall it break in pieces and bruise."
By the fourth kingdom is meant the religion of Muhammad, inasmuch as it was so strong as to bruise Zoroastrianism and Sabeanism, and this religion also turned Christians out of those lands.  As it is said in the verse, so the religion of Islám, by conquering a country, would crush and break it down.
Then read the forty-first verse.  The fourth religion shall be divided, which is Islám, and these two divisions of the religion of Islám were Sunnís and the Shí'ihs.  One of them continued to be firm and strong as iron.  By this is meant the Sunní branch in Turkey, which used to be strong until the dawn of this great Dispensation.  But part of the fourth religion was of clay and was broken.  This refers to the Persians, where the Shiite religion is prevalent, which was brought low.  If you study the history of the world will find that for six hundred years until the present time, which was the duration of constitution of Turkey, the Sunní religion has been a prevalent religion, while the Shiite branch of Persia has always been in abasement and desolation.  Although you will find that the Shí'ihs and the Sunnís belong to the same religion are extended from the same root, still they do not mix, just as iron never mixes with clay.  As a proof of this you will find that enmity has always existed between the Shiites and the Sunnís.  They have never inter-married; they never communicate with each other; they never even eat with each other, they will not mix.
Read the forty-fourth verse.  This refers to the appearance of this great Dispensation, the great Bahá'í religion, during the time of these two communities, the Shiites and the Sunnís.  The religion of Bahá'u'lláh appeared during the time of these two nations.  This religion will remove the differences, disunity and disharmony from among the world.  Read verse forty-five.  The stone was Bahá'u'lláh which came from the heaven of the Glory of God.


VII:3, 28 April 1916
page 20
An interview with 'Abdu'l-Bahá
From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
Mt. Carmel, Haifa, Syria, 30 June 1914.
Dear Friends,
Mr Hans Springer of Stuttgart, who is twenty-three years old and is a globe trotter, called on 'Abdu'l-Bahá this morning.  He makes all his tour afoot, and has already covered a distance of 35,000 km.  He is an Esperantist, and as he puts on the dress of the inhabitants of the country through which he travels, he was today an Arabian gentleman., but his blue eyes, white skin and brown van dyke beard heralded from afar off his European origin.  He spoke German, Italian and Esperanto but I could not speak with him in any of these languages.  Finding that he understood a little French, we struck on that.  At first glance 'Abdu'l-Bahá liked him.  I will record herein his conversation with Mr Springer, in its natural form of dialogue.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Thou art welcome.  Where didst thou come from?"
Hans Springer:  "I come now from Jerusalem.  From Egypt I walked to Gaza and Jaffa.  On the way fifteen Arabian Bedouins surrounded me and carried away my belongings, even my shoes.  When I reached Jerusalem I was assisted by a number of Germans."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "What is the object of thy world tour?"
Springer:  "First to spread the knowledge of Esperanto because I believe it will help to unify mankind.  Second, to see the world, to meet men of various nationalities and learn their manners and customs."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "With what means dost thou travel?"
Springer:  "The sale of these postal cards containing my picture on one side and the benefits of the knowledge of Esperanto on the other, is the sole source of my revenue.  My needs are very few in number.  I seldom eat meat.  I eat vegetables, bread and nuts."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Dost thou travel always on the surface of the earth?  Would it not be excellent if thou couldst take a trip toward heaven?"
Springer:  "Heaven?  I have never heard of anyone going to heaven.  This is impossible."
page 21
'Abdu'l-Bahá (smiling):   "Why impossible?  Did not Elijah go to heaven, and did not Christ ascend to heaven after his crucifixion and burial?"
Springer (puzzled):  "I am neither Elijah nor Christ.  I have not two wings to fly with.  It seems to me there must needs be a pair of wings."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Everything is possible.  Christ says:  'Be ye therefore perfect even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.'  Thou canst have the pair of wings.  One is the love of God and the other is renunciation of aught else save him."
Springer:  "Then you do not mean this phenomenal heaven?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I mean the heaven from which Christ descended and to which he ascended-the heaven of the divine will, the heaven of spirituality."
Springer:  "How can one ascend to that heaven?  Is it not most difficult?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "It is no more difficult than touring the world on foot.  When the spirit of the teachings of Christ takes possession of the heart and suffers man to become a servant of the world of humanity, then it will be very easy for him to ascend to heaven."
Springer:  "But in this age the Christians have forgotten the commandments of Christ."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "What hast thou to do with others?  Live, thou according to the teachings of Christ."
Springer:  "You are right.  I will do my best."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Whom dost thou think Christ was?"
Springer:  "I believe he was a great philosopher."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Oh, no!  He was much greater than a philosopher.  He was the Word of God, the Spirit of God."
Springer:  "Whew!  There are many scholars in Europe who do not believe that there was ever such a person as Christ.  On the other hand there is an increasing host of people whose faith in Christianity is shaken because the ministers of the Gospel do not live in accord with the behests of their Master.  They have become worldlings wrapped up in traditions and dogmas.  When I was in Jerusalem, I observed that the Christians have divided the Church of the Resurrection into many sections, like a bazaar, and they are always engaged in acrimonious controversies and factional fights, while they claim Christ brought peace and salvation.  Where can one find peace, and how can one be saved?  Through their religious hatred for each other they have shut the door of salvation."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "What thou sayest is true.  But we are not looking at the present conditions.  Let us look at the glorious life of Christ and those sanctified souls who came after him.  Did they not embody in their deeds the ideals of their words?  There have appeared many philosophers in the world, but they are all forgotten.  But because Christ was the Spirit and the Word of God, he and his disciples through him, became the fountains of the water of life.  Now I hope that like unto them thou wilt be the means of the illumination of the world of humanity and serve God."
Springer:  "Serve God?  There is no one in this world who can serve God, because we are not able to see Him.  He is above our human ken.  In my mind the only way we can serve Him is to serve mankind and try to alleviate the sorrows and sufferings of the people."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Christ served God and his apostles served God.  Their service was to humanity, which was a reflection of their service to God."
Springer:  "What are you doing?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I am serving God.  I am the servant of God.  I give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, the power of speech to the mute, and knowledge to the ignorant.  I raise the dead, deliver those who are in darkness and guide them into the realm of light.  I make the poor rich, and the weak powerful.  I satisfy the hungry ones with the Bread of Life and allay the thirst of the thirsty ones
page 22
with the pure Water of Immortality.  This is my work."
Springer:  "When I was in Stuttgart I attended an Esperanto meeting addressed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Does 'Abbás Effendi know him?  He is a wise man and is in great sympathy with the Esperanto language.  He has many followers in Stuttgart.  His religion is called Bahá'í."  (The translator here informed Hans Springer that he is speaking with 'Abdu'l-Bahá; that he is in his presence.  Immediately he became more respectful and expressed great joy and happiness.)
Springer:  "Is it possible that I am in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá?"
(Taking in his hand the last book of tablets to correct, 'Abdu'l-Bahá became silent.  After a few minutes, conversation started again.)
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Even a bird can fly around the world.  It is not a difficult accomplishment.  Therefore, become thou a royal bird of the kingdom, and like unto an angel soar toward the heavenly worlds.  I can assure thee that the experiences will be more than marvellous."
Springer:  "I hope to get a pair of strong wings to accomplish this difficult task."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I pray that when thou goest to Nazareth, the place of Christ's nativity, the Spirit of God may descend upon thee and wings of light be granted thee, so that thou mayst soar in the immensity of God's space and behold the wonders of His creation."
Springer:  "I will also pray for this."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Where dost thou go from here?"
Springer:  "From here I shall leave tomorrow on foot for Nazareth, then Tiberias, Beirut, Damascus, Constantinople, Caucasus and then entering Persia from the north, I will go out from the south via the Persian Gulf.  Then to India, Japan, China, Australia, Hawaiian Islands and the United States. ..."
In short, this was the outline of the talk; meanwhile, Khusraw brought for him coffee, tea and cake.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá asked someone to bring him a dish of pistachios, which in turn he shelled and gave the meats to him.  The time of parting drawing nigh, he placed in the palm of his hand an English pound, and wished him much success in his long undertaking.  The cake and pistachios were also put in a paper and given to him for his lunch.
In the afternoon, two Arabs called on 'Abdu'l-Bahá, staying with him for half an hour.  Then he dictated a number of tablets for the believers in Bákú.  It was moonlight when he returned from his walk.  "How beautiful this moonlight night," he said to us, as he entered the house.


VII:4, 17 May 1916
page 25
Tablet to India
From 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mr Bannerjee, the founder of the Devalaya Society in Calcutta, India.
O thou wooer of Reality!
His Highness the Merciful One hath caused the appearance of the splendour of love and affinity in the world of humanity, so that the individuals of mankind might be perfectly united and the rays of unity be revealed amongst the children of man.  Hence he sent forth the holy Manifestations, inspired their hearts with the contexts of the heavenly books and instituted divine religions, in order that these sanctified, personages, these revealed books, these religions of God might become the means of unity and accord, love and good fellowship in the human world.
Should we study the divine religions with the perception of truth, we would then conclude that their underlying principle is the One Reality.  All the religions of God are the reality.  Reality does not accept multiplicity and division.  But alas! that the fundamental reality is laid aside and forgotten and a catalogue of creeds, dogmas and rites have taken its place which are the basis of difference, the cause of hatred and prejudice and the establishment of the religion of God is totally forgotten and quite neglected.
When this impenetrable gloom-that is, the gloom of the traditions of forefathers and ancestors-surrounded the world and the pristine, primal light of the divine religions was changed into the darkness of the ideas of men, then the true morn dawned and the Sun of Reality (Bahá'u'lláh) arose from the horizon of Persia, reflecting in the mirror of the world of humanity the effulgence of the heavenly unity.  Thus he destroyed the foundations of the structure of blind dogmas, and man-made creeds and rituals which are the results of ignorant prejudices.  It is owing to this fact that this light is spreading with the greatest rapidity in all the countries of the world.  The influence of these divine teachings in the heart of the world is like the influence of the spirit over the bodies.
Consequently, through the breaths of this divine spirit, the followers of the different religions in Persia have rent asunder the veil of superstitions, are freed from the effect of unenlightened doctrines and have attained to the Beloved of Reality.  These antagonistic faiths are united with the bond of perfect love and amity.  For this reason great meetings are organized, in which are represented Muslims, Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, Turks, Arabs, Pársís, Persians, Kurds, English, French and Americans, who associate and mingle with each other as brothers.  Like the sheep of God they are grazing in the meadow of truth under the pro-
page 26
tecting staff of the heavenly Shepherd.
Shouldst thou reflect with the insight of reality, thou wilt observe that these antiquated and superannuated dogmas have ever been the cause of massacre and carnage amongst the nations and peoples.
As this cycle is the cycle of sciences, there must needs be new teachings, a new revelation is required and a new life is wanted.  The minds and hearts refute the veracity of ancient opinions.  New ideals are called for and new principles are urgently demanded which may fill the requirements of this age, be as the spirit of this century and as the light of this period.
Search, labour, investigate, work and show extraordinary effort, so that the centre of the light of Reality, like unto the witness of love, may become revealed in the assemblages of mankind.  Arise thou with such heavenly power and such divine confirmation as to move and stir that great continent of India.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 7 July 1914.


VII:4, 17 May 1916
page 26
Extracts from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
Dear friends:  We have an old Bahá'í by the name of "El Yahou".  His former religion had been Jewish, and his devotion to the beloved is unquestioned.  The other day he went to the house wherein 'Abdu'l-Bahá lives and started to weep and cry near the door.  The members of the blessed family heard the crying and weeping of the man and informed 'Abdu'l-Bahá of it.  He called him in and consoled him, and told him that in this day no one must cry for any reason, nay rather we must be very happy and contented with our lot, and know of a certainty that the Lord of Hosts is with us, ready to restore our health and alleviate our burden.  We must not let anything disturb the balance of our minds.  Under all circumstances we must control our feeling, and curb our inclinations.  We must fulfil our duty, attain to the highest station of perfection, and close our eyes to all imperfections.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá took pen and paper and wrote for him the following holy tablet:
"O thou my kind friend!  It is my hope that through the bestowals of the Blessed Perfection thou mayest ever become assisted and confirmed, happy and joyous; that thou mayest not cry and lament, nay rather thou mayest sing and chant.  It is said that the son of the glorious Friend had a wonderful melody and a sweet voice.  The Psalms of David are famous and not lamentation and mourning or crying by day and night.  Therefore be thou happy and let the songs and anthems of joy be on thy lips."
Our El Yahou was back in the possession of a new happiness, a new inspiration, a new serenity.  We all felt his joyful vibrations and watched delightedly his calm face.  Then he drew his book of poetry from his pocket and sang a stirring Bahá'í song with the energy and zest of a youthful singer.
1 October 1913
__________
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
"The greatest proof of Bahá'u'lláh-may my life be a ransom to him-insists in the fact that he was always manifest and evident under all conditions and circumstances.  He was never concealed nor was he disguised for one day.  In Persia, in Baghdád, in Constantinople, in Adrianople and in the most great prison, Bahá'u'lláh ever withstood the persecutions of the enemies and kept his own ground in the face of all the world.  He never attempted to
page 27
protect or shield himself for one second.  Before all nations and all religions he proclaimed his cause and declared his teachings.  The foes were resisting the spread of the cause with the greatest hostility and his blessed breast was the target for an hundred thousand arrows.  It is revealed in the Visiting Tablet:  'Verily I bear testimony that the eye of creation has not witnessed a wronged one like unto thee.  Once thou wert surrounded by the armies of hardships, again thou wert under chains and fetters and then thou wert beneath the sword of the enemies.'  Continually he was threatened with the darts and javelins of the adversaries.  He cried out:  'We have burned away the veil and the shroud and are enkindled with the fire of love.  Like the candle we are set aglow and like the beloved we are ever present in the gathering of the lovers.'  It is well-nigh beyond belief that notwithstanding all these dangers, Bahá'u'lláh was protected.  The condition was like that of a deer:  although surrounded by a hundred thousand hounds, attacking it from every side, yet protected by an invisible power."
7 March 1914
__________
Words spoken by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to some pilgrims who had, just returned from a trip to the place of sacrifice of Elijah:
"The altar of sacrifice is the living heart of man, and not a few pieces of dead stones.  The fire that came down from heaven was no other than the fire of the love of God descending from the heaven of the divine will; the bullocks are human and carnal desires and appetites which are entirely burned away by this ideal fire, leaving the spiritual altar cleansed and pure, and then celestial qualifications and attributes will take the place of former blameworthy qualities.  The killing of the priests of Baal means that the enemies of truth were so filled with wrath against the triumph of the cause of righteousness that they perished by their own defeat."
__________
"... The Bible and the Gospel are most honoured in the estimation of all the Bahá'ís.  One of the spiritual utterances of his holiness Christ in his sermon on the mount is to me preferable to all the writings of the philosophers.  It is the religious duty of every Bahá'í to read and comprehend the meanings of the Old and New Testaments."
__________
"... Whosoever desires to know the history of this cause and its tenet, must come to us and not go to those who are prejudiced and biased.  For if the seeker for information goes to the latter people he will surely deprive himself of the real facts."
__________
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to two young college men from the orient as they started west to "promote the glad tidings of the kingdom of good-will and peace":
"You are the angels of the kingdom of Abhá; guide the people.  You are the rays of the Sun of Reality; bestow upon them light.  You are the trees of the orchard of God; produce loving fruits.  You are the water of eternal life; allay the thirst of mankind.  You are the guides of the royal path of the kingdom; lead the wandering ones back to the fold.  On this trip, through the assistance and providence of God, you must perform miracles.  Your speeches must be delivered with the utmost spirituality. ...  Speak in public meetings.  God will support you.  Deliver talks on universal love, the greatness of the cause of Bahá'u'lláh, the penetration of the Word of God, and the general principles of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh.  I hope you will fill the minds with the tumult and acclamation of the kingdom, set aglow the hearts with the fire of reality and spread far and wide the good news of the King of eternal life ..."
19 July 1914


VII:4, 17 May 1916
page 29
In memoriam
Mrs Lua Moore Getsinger
Cablegram from Cairo, Egypt brings sad news.  It states that, "Lua Getsinger died of heart failure May first and was buried at Cairo."
Mrs Getsinger was one of the first persons in America, who realized that a Great Light was shining again from the horizon of the Holy Land.  And for many years she has been a brilliant voice to proclaim the Glad Tidings.
She was married to Dr Getsinger in 1896 and they were members of the first party from America who visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 'Akká.  Dr Getsinger tells of how, on this memorable visit, 'Abdu'l-Bahá seeing, with his spiritual vision, Lua Getsinger's capacity, stepped up to her and put something in her mouth.  A little later he said to her: "I have given you the power to speak and loosened your tongue.  'Lua' in Persian means 'Flag' and you must be my flag and wave it in the East and the West."  Then the glorious servant of God gave an exhortation, as Dr Getsinger says:  "into which he put such spiritual force and emphasis that it seemed as though the very walls trembled and we were hardly able to stand on our feet.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was declaring that the millennium had come and the Kingdom of God was to be established on earth.  He wanted Lua thus to proclaim it everywhere in a loud voice."
This was the first of many visits she made to the home of light at 'Akká.  Long and carefully did 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his great loving kindness tell her how to teach the Most Great Cause.  She travelled far and wide in her teaching.  She was often ill.  In referring to one of these illnesses her husband tells how 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "I told the angel of death to stay away."
'Abdu'l-Bahá entrusted to her many missions of trust and responsibility.  For instance, when "Muzaffari'd-Dín Sháh, of Persia, visited Paris, 'Abdu'l-Bahá sent her with a petition asking the Sháh to stop the martyrdoms of Bahá'ís in his kingdom, which he promised to do."  Her last great mission was to India.
To further quote Dr Getsinger:  "When 'Abdu'l-Bahá desired further to acquaint the Maharajah of Jalowar with the Bahá'í teachings he sent Lua from Bombay to this enlightened personage who received her most graciously.  He had invited 'Abdu'l-Bahá to breakfast with him in London and is a staunch friend of the Bahá'í cause.  The Maharajah continued to exchange letters with Lua.  "In all these journeys," as her husband says, "she never spared herself.  Time and time again I have seen her in a state of utter exhaustion yet she would pull herself together by sheer will power in order to keep her appointments.  To this perhaps many friends can testify who have had occasion to entertain her during the past ten years.  She knew but little rest for 'Abdu'l-Bahá had said:  'Day and night thou must engage in spreading the message.  Nothing else will avail thee.'  She never lost sight of her Master's business.  When once a complaint was made of Lua to 'Abdu'l-Bahá he turned to the person who had made it and with a benign smile, said:  'But she loves her Lord.'  She was generous to a fault, depriving herself often that others might have.  She had a rare vitalizing power in serving others.  She spoke with ease and brilliance and feared no one in debate.  Her gift from 'Abdu'l-Bahá made her confident and victorious."
She returned from her mission to India in January, 1915, spent seven months with 'Abdu'l-Bahá's family at Haifa and there sailed in trying times on an American warship to Cairo.  But much of the
page 30
time in Cairo she was ill with that illness that at last permitted her to ascend into the "city of light".
Thus passed a brilliant maid-servant of God from the service of the earth world to that of the unseen Kingdom.
The Editors.
Mrs Fannie Dunn
On 9 March1916, Mrs Fannie Dunn, wife of Hyde Dunn, passed on.
With the passing of Mrs Dunn the San Francisco Assembly registered its first "In Memoriam"-an occasion of quickened human sadness, but a season of great spiritual illumination.
In Bahá'í experience the San Francisco Assembly has indeed had its days of beginning, days of feebleness, when in very truth but two or three would gather together.  But, whether in those days or these of greater fullness, none has woven more closely the bonds of love and steadfastness than Hyde Dunn.  Of him, it was conceded that he was kind and served with love.
To his good wife, the object of his yearning and devotion, for a long time the "tales of the past" were the words of leading; for her, the Hidden Words were still a sealed book.
The sign of love is patience.
Then came the days of the end:  The pilgrimage in "the valley of the shadow" was long, painful, overburdened.  Bahá'í arms upheld the stricken one; Bahá'í love whispered "Be strong!"
Praise be to God, as the journey shortened, the Light became clearer, brighter, purer, and in the finality the dominance of the Spirit heralded a triumph which despoiled death of its prowess and the grave of its victory!
The end was glorious:  It was Bahá'í.  To the Assembly, this consecration of the first fruits was a wonderful teaching, a conviction that "freedom from the riches of self" is the wealth that transforms "My Calamity into My Providence", whereby the Children of the Spirit become "the Stars of My Omnipresence forever".
"Herein there is no death, no trouble, no burden."
Bahá'í Assembly,
San Francisco, 18 April 1916.


VII:5, 5 June 1916
page 33
"Two people are equivalent in strength of character to the whole world"
Extracts from a talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at Los Angeles, Saturday evening, 19 October 1912.
Do not look at your small number.  Plurality of numbers is not of importance.  It is rather the bounty of God that is essential-it is the confirmation of the heavenly kingdom.  Consider past times.  How often it has happened that a limited meeting, a small number, has finally widened its circle and grown in proportion, until it included all nations and religions.
Therefore, the hearts must be looked at, not the pluralities.  If a limited number of souls are possessed of hearts which are pure and tender, that limited number is equivalent in strength of character to the whole population of the earth.
Consider how, after the crucifixion of Jesus Christ-fifty days thereafter-a limited number of disciples gathered together on the Mount of Transfiguration, not far from Jaffa.  The number of these was eleven.  They gathered there with hearts pure, with intentions sincere, with spirits exhilarated.  In the utmost of sincerity, without any care, without any intention of self-desire did they gather together, this limited number, and there held a meeting upon the Mount.  Because of the purity of the hearts of those souls, because of the trustworthiness of those souls, because of the reliance of those souls, because of the attraction of the hearts of those souls, the world was illumined, Christianity was advanced, the Roman empire became Christianized; the Assyrians were converted,-also the Chaldeans.  In other words, the illumination of his holiness Christ illumined all regions.  All these were the blessed results of that meeting of eleven souls on the mountain.  They held that meeting in the utmost of purity and sincerity, in the utmost of faith and assurance; in the utmost of attraction and zeal was that meeting held.  And these colossal results were attained, these wondrous lights were expressed, this heavenly affair was promulgated.
Therefore do not look at your limited number, that you are not capable of having a meeting the same as other people.  Remember that importance is not attached to numbers.  Importance concerns faith, concerns assurance, concerns veracity, concerns firmness, concerns attainment to the Kingdom of Abhá, concerns self-sacrifice in the path of the Kingdom.  If you attain to this, though there be but two people, remember that two people are equivalent in strength of character to the whole world.
Therefore, I pray, asking for your confirmation and assistance, that the aid and uplift of Bahá'u'lláh may reach you, the hosts of the Kingdom of Abhá may reinforce you, that the powerful angels of God may assist you.  Be assured of the victory; rest assured that you will be
page 34
confirmed.  That which is of essential importance is your unity and agreement.  You must be in the utmost state of unity and agreement.  You must love one another; you must be self-sacrificing for one another.  If you observe any short-comings on the part of any, as much as you can, be forgiving and do not be harsh.  Even if you wish to admonish, let your admonition be in symbols; do not express it explicitly lest any heart should be saddened.  Remember that in the world of existence there is nothing so bad as injuring a heart, for the heart of a man is the place of the descent of the Merciful and man must not at all disquiet or harm the place of the Merciful.  Man must ever strive to make the hearts grateful, to rejoice the spirits, to render the thoughts radiant, to be the cause of the comfort and ease of others.  This is the station of the Bahá'ís and this is the utmost desire of those who are divine.
Now, the friends of God in Persia have reached such a stage that each is willing to sacrifice his life for the others, each one accounting himself the servant of the others.  How many of the nobles are occupied with the service of the poor.  How many of the dear ones are most humble and submissive in the presence of the lowly!  What is this for?  It is for the love of God.  It is for sincerity.  It is for faith.  It is for certainty.
All the people of the world look at us to see how we act; what our characteristics are; what our attributes are; what our mode of procedure is.  They all look toward us, and we must act in such wise that we may not be the cause of the degradation of the Cause of God.  Nay, rather, that we may be the cause of the glory of God and if we do not do so, how can we behold his face in his kingdom?  What shall be our apology?  Did Bahá'u'lláh not teach us by his deeds?  Did he not teach us through self-sacrifice?  Did he not teach us through his ordeals and difficulties?  Is it meet that we should forget them?
Thank God that he has suffered you to attain this great bestowal.  Let us thank God that he has suffered us to be sheltered beneath the Tree of Life.  Let us thank God that he has accepted us in his kingdom.  Let us offer thanks to God that he has specialized us for the favour which was the utmost aim of the holy saints.  Let us thank God that, notwithstanding the lack of capacity, he bestows every favour upon us, every grace is showered upon us, and every bounty is revealed to us.  He prepared for us the good of both worlds; he prepared for us eternal honour; he gave unto us the life everlasting; he chose us out of all the nations of the world and he caused us to attain to that which is the sublimity of the human world.  Praise God for such an attainment as this!  Thank God that such a guidance is yours!  And strive with life to hold aloft the banner of the great guidance, to be the cause of the illumination of the east and west, the cause of unity of all nations, that you may be the means of manifesting the spiritual attributes, that you may become imbued with the qualities of the faithful, that you may be distinguished in all virtues, that you may be set aglow with the fire of love of God and attracted by the love of God.


VII:5, 5 June 1916
page 34
Power of the Cause
"There is a power in this Cause, a mysterious power, far, far, far away from the ken of men and angels.  That invisible power is the cause of all these outward activities.  It moves the hearts.  It rends the mountains.  It administers the complicated affairs of the Cause.  It inspires the friends.  It dashes into a thousand pieces all the forces of opposition.  It creates new spiritual worlds.  This is a mystery of the Kingdom of Abhá."-'Abdu'l-Bahá


VII:5, 5 June 1916
page 36
A call to heroic teaching
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
He is Abhá!
O ye who are turned to the Supreme Appearance!
Day and night, morn and eve, at sunrise and at sunset we are remembering, with all our hearts and souls, the friends of the Merciful One, asking God's help and confirmation that the believers of the pure territory, the Holy Land, may become excellent in all conditions of morality, characteristics, behaviour, manners, conduct and actions, that they may appear with ecstasy, enthusiasm, love, consciousness, assurance, steadfastness, firmness, concord and harmony, with bright faces and splendid beauty in the community of the world.
O ye friends of God!  Today is the day of union and this age is the age of harmony in the world of existence.  "Verily, God loveth those who are working in his path in groups, for they are a solid foundation."  Consider ye that he says "in groups", united and bound together, supporting one another.  "To work", mentioned in this holy verse, does not mean, in this greatest age, to perform it with swords, spears, shafts and arrows, but rather with sincere intentions, good designs, useful advices, divine moralities, beautiful actions, spiritual qualities, educating the public, guiding the souls of mankind, diffusing spiritual fragrances, explaining divine illustrations, showing convincing proofs and doing charitable deeds.  When the holy souls, through the angelic power, will arise to show forth these celestial characteristics, establishing a band of harmony, each of these souls shall be regarded as one thousand persons and the waves of this greatest ocean shall be considered as the army of the hosts of the Supreme Concourse.
What a great blessing it is that when the torrents, streams, currents, tides and drops are all gathered in one place, they will form a great ocean and the real harmony shall overcome and reign in such a manner that all the rules, laws, distinctions and differences of the imaginations of these souls shall disappear and vanish like little drops and shall be submerged in the ocean of spiritual unity.  By the Ancient Beauty, in this case and condition, the blessings of the
page 37
great ocean will overflow and canals shall become as spacious as an endless ocean and each drop shall become as a boundless sea!
O ye friends of God!  Strive to attain to this high and sublime station and show forth such a brightness in these days, that its radiance may appear from the eternal horizons.  This is the real foundation of the Cause of God; this is the essence of the divine doctrine; this is the cause of the revelation of the heavenly scriptures; this is the means of the appearance of the Sun of the divine world; this is the way of the establishment of God upon the bodily throne.
O ye friends of God!  Notice that his holiness the Báb-May the souls of all the creatures be a ransom to him!-for this very eminent intention, exposed his holy breast to the arrows of all casualties.  So, as the principal design of the Blessed Perfection-May the souls of the people of the Supreme Concourse be a ransom to him!-was the same great intention, therefore his holiness the Báb made his blessed breast the target for thousands of bullets from the people of enmity and rancour in this path, and was martyred with great oppression.  The pure blood of thousands of divine and holy souls was shed and poured in this path, and how many blessed bodies of the sincere friends of the divine God were hanged on the scaffold!
The Blessed Beauty of Abhá-may the divine souls of the existence be a ransom to his friends!-endured personally, all kinds of calamities and bore the most violent ordeals.  There remained no torture which did not come to his holy body and no suffering which did not descend upon his pure spirit.  How many nights he could not take rest, under the chains and heaviness of fetters, and how many days he gave himself not a minute's repose because of the burden of fetters and chains!
From Níyávarán to Tihrán that pure spirit, who was brought up on a bed of down, was forced to run, with bare head and bare feet, under chains and fetters, and, in a dark and narrow subterranean prison, he was put with murderers, thieves, criminals and malefactors; at every moment a new torture was inflicted upon him and at every moment his martyrdom was expected by all.
After a long time, he was sent from the city of his residence to foreign countries.  For many years, in Baghdád, at every moment a new arrow was darted toward his holy breast, and at every instant a sword was bent on his pure body.  At no instant was there any hope for safety and security, and the enemies, with utmost dexterity, were attacking the blessed soul from all sides, and he alone, personally, resisted them all.
After all these hardships and calamities, he was sent from Baghdád in Asia.  to Europe, and in that terrible exile, great affliction, vehement torture and constant attack, the plots, calumniations, enmity, rancour and hatred of the people of the Bayán were added to those which came from the people of the Qur'án.  The pen is unable to explain it all, but surely you have heard and learned about it.
After twenty-four years in the greatest prison, 'Akká, his life was ended in great trouble and hardship.
In short, all the time of the sojourn of the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh)-May the souls of all existence be a ransom to his forbearance!-in this mortal world, he was either restrained with chains or kept under hanging swords, enduring the most painful afflictions.  At last, in this greatest prison, his holy
page 38
body was extremely weakened from the intense sufferings and his beautiful person became as weak as a web from this continual hardship.  His main purpose in bearing this heavy burden and all these troubles, which gave forth their waves like an ocean, accepting the chains and fetters and showing forth the greatest forbearance, was for the sake of harmony, concord and union among all the people of the world and for the establishment of the signs of the real unity among all nations, until the essential Unity (of God) might (at last) appear in the existing realities, and the light of the saying:  "Thou seest no difference among the creatures of God" might shine forth upon the whole world.
O friends of God!  Now is the time of movement and striving-then try and endeavour!  As the Blessed Perfection-May my soul be a ransom to the dust under the feet of his friends!-was constantly in the field of martyrdom, we, also, must endeavour to pour out our lives, and to hear, with our spiritual ears, the divine advices and exhortations, leaving our limited beings, and forsaking the vain ideas of differences of the physical world, in order to serve this eminent purpose and this principal design, which has been planted by the hand of divine favour; and not veil, with the dark clouds of self-interest and superstition, the light emanating from the Kingdom of Abhá, nor become as barring dikes to the waves of the supreme ocean, nor to prevent the diffusion of the fragrances of the garden of the glorious beauty, nor stop the inundation of the rains of the divine grace in this day, nor to hinder the rays of the Sun of Reality.
This is what God has commanded in his scriptures, books and holy tablets, declaring his commandments to his sincere servants.
Upon ye be the mercy and the blessings of God!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VII:5, 5 June 1916
page 38
The truly blessed
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb to Miss Harriet Magee, May, 1913.
Blessed is he who is charitable, for he shall inherit eternal life.
Blessed is he who overlooks the faults of others, for he shall enjoy divine beatitude.
Blessed is he who associates with all with joy and fragrance, for he has obeyed the commands of Bahá'u'lláh.
Blessed is he who loves mankind, for he has heeded the advice of Bahá'u'lláh.
Blessed is he who is kind to his enemies, for he has walked in the footsteps of Christ.
Blessed is he who proclaims the doctrine of spiritual brotherhood, for he shall be the child of light.
Blessed is he whose heart is tender and compassionate, for he will throw stones at no one.
Blessed is he who will speak evil of no one, for he hath attained to the good pleasure of the Lord.
Blessed is he who will not uncover the sins of others, for he will become favoured at the threshold of the Almighty.
page 39
Blessed is he who hath a forgiving nature, for he will win the spiritual graces of God.
Blessed is he who diffuses only the sweet fragrance of the flowers of friendship and mutual association, for he will obtain a goodly portion of the bounties of the Merciful.
Blessed is he who teaches union and concord, for he will shine like unto a star in heaven.
Blessed is he who practices loving-kindness and co-operation, for he will be encircled with celestial benedictions.
Blessed is he who comforts the downtrodden, for he will be the friend of God.


VII:6, 24 June 1916
page 41
The way to universal peace
Extracts from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, May, 1914
"What is the greatest need of the VI world of humanity?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:
"Today, in the world of humanity, the most important matter is the question of universal peace.  The realization of this principle is the crying need of the time.  People have become restive and discontented.  The political world of every civilized nation has become a vast arena for the exhibition of militarism and the display of martial spirit.  The minds of the statesmen and cabinet ministers, of every government, are chiefly occupied with the question of war, and the council chambers are resounding with the call to war.  Self-interest is at the bottom of every war.  Greed, commerce, exploitation, the pushing further of the boundaries of the kingdom, colonization, the preservation of the treaty rights, the safeguarding of the lives and interests of the citizens, are a few of the many pretexts for going to war.  And it has been proven by experience that the results of war are ruinous, both to the conquerors and the conquered.  Countries are laid waste, public property trampled under foot, commerce is paralyzed, fields crimsoned with the innocent blood and the progress of the world retarded.  How can a person rectify a wrong by committing a greater wrong, shedding the blood of his brothers?  The major part of the revenue of every country is expended upon military preparations-infernal engines, the filling of arsenals with powder and shot, the construction of rapid firing guns, the building of fortifications and soldiers' barracks and the annual maintenance of the army and navy.  From the peasants upward every class of society is heavily taxed to feed this insatiable monster of war.  The poor people have wrested from them all that they make with the sweat of their brows and the labour of their hands.
"In reality war is continuous.  The moral effect of the expenditures of these colossal sums of money upon military purposes is just as deteriorating as the actual war and its train of dreadful carnage and horrors.  The ideal and moral forces of the contending parties become barbaric and bestial, the spiritual powers are stunted and the laws of divine civilization are disregarded.  Such a financial drain ossifies the veins and muscles of the body politic, and congeals the delicate sensibilities of the spirit.
"There is not the least doubt that the nation or government which puts forward an extraordinary effort in the promotion of universal peace will be encircled with divine confirmations, and will be the object of honour and respect amongst all the inhabitants of the earth.  Such an action will be conducive to the prosperity and well being of mankind.  Concerning this question of universal peace, fifty years ago his holiness Bahá'u'lláh wrote to all the sovereigns and monarchs of the world explaining in detail the benefits of peace and the evils, of bloodshed.  Amongst other things he hath said:  Originally mankind was one family, united and Compact; later on the members of
Page 42
this happy family were divided and subdivided through ignorance and prejudice.  Now the time has come again for their final unification.  Universal peace will bring this long wished for consummation.
Once the parliament of man is established and its constituent parts organized, the governments of the world having entered into a covenant of eternal friendship will have no need of keeping large standing armies and navies.  A few battalions to preserve internal order and an international police to keep the highways of the seas clear will be all that is necessary.  Then these huge sums will be diverted to other more useful channels, pauperism will disappear, knowledge will increase, the victories of peace will be sung by poets and bards, knowledge will improve the conditions and mankind will be rocked in the cradle of felicity and bliss.  Then, whether a government is constitutional or republic, hereditary monarchy or democratic, the rulers will devote their time to the prosperity of their nations, the legislation of just and sane laws and the fostering of closer and more amicable relations with their neighbours; thus the world of humanity may become a mirror in which are reflected the virtues and attributes of the kingdom of God."
__________
"What is your opinion concerning disarmament?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "By a general agreement all the governments of the world must disarm simultaneously and at the same time.  It will not do if one lays down arms and the others refuse to do so.  The nations of the world must concur with each other concerning this supremely important subject, that they may abandon together these deadly weapons of human slaughter.  As long as one power increases her military and naval budget, another power will be forced into the crazed competition through her natural and supposed interests.  For example, Germany has increasingly added to a vast sum for the maintenance of her army.  This alarms the French statesmen and volatile patriots, and affects the calm and steady nerves of the English across the channel.  Immediately there will be rumours of war, talk of German aggression, German ambition.  The yellow journals write searing editorials, jingoism becomes the topic of the capitals, the air is filled with suspicions.  Someone will see, for the purposes of expediency, a German dirigible flying over French fortifications or English forts making observations.  A hue and a cry will be raised from every quarter of the country and thus there will be a corresponding increase in the estimates of the Minister of War for the defence of our homes and our hearths, our women and our sweethearts from the attack of strangers.  The same argument is resorted to when the French nation adds one or two years to her military conscription and the English imperialists emphasize in public meetings the doctrine of the double standard power.  Now as long as Germany continues in her own military perfection the French will walk in her footsteps trying at every turn to increase their own war ammunitions in order to be prepared for any national crisis or sudden attack.  Hence it seems the only solution lies in the fact of universal disarmament on the part of all the nations.
"When we speak of universal peace we mean that all the governments must change their fleets of battleships and dreadnaughts to a mighty fleet of merchant marine, plying the oceans of the world, uniting the distant shores and interweaving the commercial, intellectual and moral forces of mankind.  But should England alone transform the character of her warships she will be at the mercy of her enemies and will remain powerless and defenceless.  The British Isles will be unquestionably threatened by a powerful invading, well disciplined host.  Hence, aside from any national prowess, the English people are pushed into this weltering whirlpool of military and naval expenditures and are strug-
Page 43
gling to keep their heads above the seething water all around them which, unless calmed down, will drown all of them, irrespective of any nationality.
"Once a person met his friend in the street and after the exchange of courtesies gave him a hard blow in the face.  'Why dost thou do this?'  'Hast thou not read in the Gospel wherein Christ says:  "Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek turn to him the other also?"  Now according to this admonition let me smite thee on thy left cheek also.'  The man submitted to the second blow quite willingly and they parted.  Next day they met each other again and the man received two more blows on his cheeks without any evident murmur.  They met the third day and he was going to inflict upon him the same blows.  'Wait a minute, my friend.  I am not the only person in the world to live according to the teachings of Christ.  Thou also art one.  I have obeyed him two days and the next two days will be my turn.'  With these words he smote the man on his cheek and asked him to turn the other side also.
"Now the question of disarmament must be put into practice by all the nations and not only by one or two.  Consequently the advocates of peace must strive day and night so that the individuals of every country may become peace loving, public opinion may gain a strong and permanent footing, and day by day the army of international peace be increased, complete disarmament be realized and the flag of universal conciliation be waving on the summit of the mountains of the earth."
__________
"How can Universal Peace be realized?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "The ideals of peace must be nurtured and spread amongst the inhabitants of the world; they must be instructed in the school of peace, so that they may fully comprehend the benefits of peace and the evils of war.  First:  the financiers and bankers must desist from lending money to any government that contemplates waging an unjust war upon an innocent nation.  Second:  the presidents and managers of the railroad and steamship companies must refrain from transporting war munitions, infernal engines and guns and cannons and powder from one country into another.  Third:  the soldiers must petition through their representatives, the ministers of war, the politicians, the congressmen and the generals to put forth in a clear, intelligible language the reasons and the causes which have brought them to the brink of such a national calamity.  The soldiers must demand this as one of their prerogatives.  'Demonstrate to us,' they must say, 'that this is a just war and we will then enter the battlefield; otherwise we will not take one step.  O ye kings and rulers, politicians and war mongers; ye who spend your lives in most exquisite palaces of Italian architecture; ye who sleep in airy, well ventilated apartments; ye who decorate your reception and dining halls with lovely pictures, sculptures, hangings and frescoes; ye who walk in perfect Elysiums, wreathed in orange and myrtle groves, the air redolent with delicious perfumes and vocal with the sweet songs of a thousand birds, the earth like a luxuriant carpet of emerald grass, bright flowers dotting the meadows and trees clothed in verdure; ye who are dressed in costly silk and finely woven textures; ye who lie down on soft feathery couches; ye who partake of the most delicious and savoury dishes; ye who enjoy the utmost ease and comfort in your wondrous mansions; ye who attend rare musical concerts whenever you feel a little disconcerted and sad; ye who adorn your large halls with green festoons and cut flowers, fresh garlands, and verdant wreaths, illuminating them with thousands of electric lights, while the exquisite fragrance of the flowers, the soft, ravishing music, the fairy like illumination lend enchantment; ye who are in such envir-
Page 48
onments while holding the ladies in your arms dance to the tune of lively music:  Come forth from your hiding places, enter into the battlefield if you like to attack each other and tear each other to pieces if you desire to air your so called contentions!  This discord and feud are between you; why do you make the, innocent people a party to it?  If fighting and bloodshed are good things then lead them into the fray by your presence!'
"In short, every means which produces war must be checked and the causes which prevent the occurrence of war be advanced, so that physical conflict may become an impossibility.  On the other hand every country must be properly delimited, its exact frontiers marked, its national integrity secured, its permanent independence protected, and its vital interests honoured by the family of nations.  These services ought to be rendered by an imperial, international commission.  In this manner all causes of friction and differences will be removed.  And in case there should arise some disputes between them they may arbitrate before the parliament of man, the representatives of which will be chosen from amongst the wisest and most judicious men of all the nations of the world." 
(Alhammeh, Lake Tiberias. Syria, 11-12 May 1914.)
While in London in 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was asked:
"By what process will this peace on earth lie established?  Will it come at once after a universal declaration of the truth?"
"No, it will come about gradually," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "A plant that grows too quickly lasts but a short time.  You are my family," and he looked about with a smile, "my new children!  If a family lives in unison, great results are obtained.  Widen the circle; when a city lives in intimate accord greater results will follow, and a continent that is fully united will likewise unite all other continents.  Then will be the time of the greatest results, for all the inhabitants of the earth belong to one native land."


VII:7, 13 July 1916
page 57
The main sessions of the Convention
A Digest from the Minutes, Monday, 1 May.
[Extracts]
page 60
Dr D'Evelyn:  When he was in America a small group of people gathered around 'Abdu'l-Bahá and asked:  "What are we to do?  We want to go out and teach."  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The gardener must first have tools before he can cultivate the soil.  The first tool that you require is severance; the second is knowledge; then the love of God, and then eloquence."  By using all these tools, he said, they would become successful gardeners.
page 61
Mr Ober:  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá was in America, a friend, a very lovely soul, said to him, "My Master, I wish to give a great gift and I wish to assist in some material way."  'Abdu'l-Bahá said to the interpreter:  "Why does she not build the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár?"  The interpreter said, "Will you permit me to tell her this?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "No, she must know it in her own heart."  Then he added, "If 'Abdu'l-Bahá was to build this temple it would be built at once.  But I have left the entire matter in the hands of the Executive Board."
page 64
The session, Tuesday 2 May
Mrs Claudia Coles:  When I looked this morning, in my bag of tablets, with a big desire to give something to somebody I found these words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá uttered in Europe in 1912, a message to every soul upon the earth:  "Come ye together.  Concentrate your spiritual forces.  Arise with much fervour and enthusiasm.  Show ye a united effort.  Let a new attraction take possession of your hearts.  Let a new spirit sweep over your temples, so that the fire of the love of God which is enkindled in your
page 65
holy of holies may flame forth and set up a spiritual conflagration in the whole of the world.  You must not rest day or night until you have breathed into this body a new spirit and ignited a light in this lamp."
...
Mrs Fraser-Chamberlain:  Green Acre has always been an open Forum for the free presentation of universal ideas.  May it never be narrowed to any one cult or sect.  We as Bahá'ís must help to make it more and more universal and spiritually free until it finds the liberty of the sons of God.
Let me read you some of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's words concerning Green Acre:
"In Green Acre you must concentrate your forces around the all-important fact-the investigation of reality.  Expend all your thoughts on this, that the union of opinions and expressions may be obtained.
"If the circle of the activities of Green Acre be expanded so that each year the leaders of every religion and thought may associate with each other with perfect love and amity there will be good results.
"Personal ambitions must be thrown to the winds and all the available will-power directed toward the realization of the universal objects.  If you outline such a practical, universal, all-inclusive programme and then invite me I will come again to Green Acre."


VII:9, 20 August 1916
page 77
'Abdu'l-Bahá speaks on divine politics and other topics
Some Questions Answered by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Summer Home of a United States Government Official, 4 June 1912.
(Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, 15 June 1916.)
We hope that in this gathering we shall partake of the heavenly table.  We are pleased with this assembly because it has been united through love.  Undoubtedly, the heavenly table is present in every meeting that is gathered through love.  In the Gospel it is mentioned that the heavenly table descended upon Peter.  Among the people of the Orient it is known that it descended upon his holiness Christ.  Also, it is mentioned that the divine table descended upon her holiness Mary.  Unquestionably, the heavenly table descended upon both Christ and Mary.  The heavenly table concerns heaven, the spiritual table concerns the spirit, and the table of mind concerns the mind.  That table which descended upon his holiness Christ and upon Mary was the love of God.  From it the human spirit is made alive.  It is the sustenance of the hearts.  The effects of the physical food are temporal, but the effects of the heavenly food are eternal.  Physical food is the life of the body, but in spiritual food is the life of the spirit."
__________
Someone asked:  "What will become of the soul of man after death?  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "The body goes under the earth.  Thence it came and thither it goes.  Everything that you see returns to its own place.  As the human body comes from dust, to dust it returns.  But the human spirit comes from God and to Him does it return. ..."
One of those who was present said that it was reported in the papers that 'Abdu'l-Bahá had bought a house at Montclair (N.J.), and intended to live there.  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "They are right in their report, but they did not understand what kind of a home it is.  All the world is my country and I am living everywhere.  Wherever such souls as you are found, there is my country.  Hearts are the real country.  Man must live in the hearts and not on the earth.  This earth belongs to no one.  It will pass away from the hands of all.  It is an imagination.  But the hearts are the real country."
__________
Praise be to God, you are happy.  Here is a paradise.  The views are beautiful.  It is a superb spot.  It has great spirituality.  In this place the human soul finds spiritual vibrations.  Great happiness is manifest.  You have chosen a delightful place."
__________
A woman asked if such a solitary place was also good for children, or if it would be better for them to have company of their age.  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered "It is very good for children.  It is good for their eyes, thoughts, minds, etc.  But sometimes it is necessary for them to be with other well brought up children.  Consider when a child becomes two years old, it likes to associate with other children.  Consider
page 78
the birds how they gather and fly together.  Do you remember when you were a child how pleased you were with the children who were of your age and how happy you were?"
__________
"His holiness Bahá'u'lláh liked such natural scenery.  He said:  'The city is the world of the bodies but the mountains and the country are the world of the souls.'  Yet all of his life he was a prisoner and fell under great calamities.  You must be very grateful to Columbus who discovered such a great country.  It is exceedingly astonishing that though he was the discoverer, yet it became known by the name of America.  Indeed this country should be called Columbia, which is true and just.  Every existing being of the nether world, although it is useful, has still its harmful side.  But the thing to be considered is, which is the greater, its usefulness or harmfulness?  For example, although by the discovery of Columbus the world seemingly suffered weariness and hardships,-for instance, if Columbus did not discover America the Titanic would not have been built and, so many souls drowned-yet these evils in comparison with the benefits are as nothing.  Therefore, the usefulness of other things must be considered.  In this day the things which are all good are those which pertain to the spirit.  They are all good and for the good of all.  From them no harm ever comes, for they are light and there is no harm in light."
__________
Someone asked what 'Abdu'l-Bahá thought of New York City.  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "Its houses are somewhat close to each other.  They are like cages.  They are like bee-hives.  But here all is good.  When we rode in the carriage and came to this summer resort it was as though we came out of a hell into paradise.
"Today after our arrival we went to the waterfalls.  On returning we were caught by rain and we got somewhat wet; we ran to a house nearby.  In the tablets of his holiness Bahá'u'lláh, it is written that once his holiness Christ was in the desert.  It was a dark night and it began to rain in torrents.  He went to a cave but he saw ferocious animals therein.  He stopped outside and the rain poured upon his head fearfully.  He said:  'O God, to the birds thou hast given a nest, to the wild animals a cave, and to the sheep a valley, but for the Son of Man thou hast not created a place wherein he can shelter himself from the rain.  O Father, thou seest that the earth is my bed, grass is my food, and the stars are my lamps by night.'  Then he said:  'Who is richer than I?  Thou hast bestowed upon me a bounty which was not given to the kings, princes, philosophers, and the rich.  Who is more wealthy than I?'"
__________
"In the writings of Bahá'u'lláh there are events which were not mentioned in the Gospels.  These traditions are from the life of Christ.  They show the genius and sublimity of Christ.  I would like to tell you another story.  It is said that one day Christ arrived in a village where the government made a law that the inhabitants must not allow strangers to enter their homes.  This was because in those regions robbery was increasing.  His Holiness went to the house of an old woman.  When she saw his beauty and majesty she was ashamed to refuse to receive him, and did not want to reject him.  So she admitted him with the utmost respect.  Then when she looked at him and realized by his manners the greatness of his Holiness, she stepped forward and kissed his hand.  And she said to him 'I have only one son and nobody else.  He was wise, perfect, and we were living very happily.  Now, for some time he has been worried; he is mourning; he fills our home with sorrow and sadness; he is working daily, but at night he comes home worried; he does not sleep,
page 79
and whenever I ask him what the matter is, he does not answer.'
His Holiness said to her:  'Send him to me.'"
Her son came in the evening.  The mother said:  'O my son, this is a great personage, and, if you have any trouble, tell him about it.'  Then the son went and sat down in the holy presence.
Jesus said:  "Tell me what art thou suffering from."
The son:  "I am not suffering."
Jesus:  "Do not speak a lie.  Thou hast an incurable malady.  Tell it to me.  I am trustworthy.  I do not tell the secrets of anyone.  I keep them.  Have confidence.  Tell it to me.  I will not reveal your secret."
The son:  "My sickness has no remedy.  "
Jesus:  "Tell me about it; I will remedy it."
The son:  "Because it has no remedy it cannot be cured."
Jesus:  "Tell it to me.  I have the remedy."
The son:  "For any kind of disease?"
Jesus:  "Yes, for any kind of disease."
The son:  "I am ashamed to tell you.  I am mortified to tell you."
Jesus:  "Thou art my son."
The son, thinking for a moment, said:  "I cannot mention it with my tongue.  It seems to me that I will be impolite if I do."
Jesus:  "I will forgive thee."
The son:  "I am in love with the daughter of the king who is in a city nearby.  My work is the selling of thorns.  What can I say more than this?"
Jesus:  "Have confidence.  God willing I shall send thee what thou wishest."  Briefly, his Holiness arranged it for him so that he might marry the young woman.  On the night of the wedding, just as he entered her room, which was full of ornaments and splendour, something came to his mind and he said to himself, this person (Jesus) has brought to consummation so great a matter for me.  Why did he not do it for himself?  Inasmuch as he performed such good fortune for me, he could have performed the same thing for himself.  Yet with such ideal powers he wanders in the desert; he eats grass; he sleeps on the earth; he sits in the dark; he is in the utmost poverty.  When this thought came to him he said to the young woman:  "Remain thou here.  I have a little business to attend to; I go and will return."  He went out into the night in pursuit of his Holiness.  Finally he found him and said:  "O, my Lord.  Thou hast not treated me fairly."
Jesus:  "Why?"
Son:  "Thou hast obtained for me that which thou desired not for thyself.  Undoubtedly thou hast something which is greater than this.  And if this were the acceptable thing thou wouldst have chosen it for thyself.  It is evident thou hast something which is greater than this.  Therefore thou art not just.  Thou hast given me that which thou desirest not for thyself."
Jesus:  "Thou art right.  Hast thou the capacity and the preparation for it?"
Son:  "I hope so."
Jesus:  "Canst thou leave everything?"
Son:  "Yes."
Jesus:  " It is the divine guidance which is greater than all things.  If thou art able, come."
He followed him.  Then his Holiness went to his disciples and said:  "I have found, in this village, a hidden treasure.  Now I have saved it.  This is my treasure.  I have taken him out of the earth and I give him to you."
__________
One of those who were present said that he was sorry he could not speak the Persian language.
'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "Praise be to
page 81
God, this veil does not exist in the world of spirit.  The hearts speak with each other.  There was once organized in Persia a society whose chief characteristic was that they spoke without the tongue, and with the slightest sign could communicate many important matters.  This society progressed to such a degree that with the motion of a finger abstruse matters could be understood.  The government feared that they might organize a society against the government and since none could understand their purpose they might work great mischief.  Therefore they suppressed them.
"I wish to tell you a story about this society.  Anyone who desired to join it had to stand at the door.  Then they consulted with each other by signs and gave their opinions without speaking.  Once a person with an awful looking visage stood at the door.  The president looked at his face and saw what an awful looking figure he had.  There was a cup on the table containing water.  The president poured in some water until it was full to the brim.  This was the sign of rejection.  It meant that there was no room among them for that person.  But the man was intelligent.  He took a tiny piece of a flower leaf and with the utmost deference entered the room and put it on the surface of the water in the cup.  He laid it so carefully that the water in the cup did not move.  All were delighted.  He meant that he did not need a big place, that he was like a flower leaf which does not need a place.  They clapped their hands and accepted him.  All their conversation was with signs; they progressed very much and by this method intelligence and memory became keen and their power in reading the face increased.  Often they spoke to each other with their eyes.  With the utmost clearness they conversed with each other by the motions of their eyes." ...
__________
Someone asked about the future of America.  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered that "In the future all the countries of America such as Mexico and Canada, and even South America will join the Union."
Some one asked about the great universal war among the nations.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "It must come, but America will not be involved.  This war will be in Europe.  You have taken a corner for yourselves.  You do not interfere with others' business.  You are not thinking of taking the European countries, and there is no one who is greedy to take your land.  You are safe because the Atlantic ocean is a very strong, natural fort."
__________
Someone asked regarding the forms of government, such as the republican, the constitutional, etc.
page 82
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "Europe and other countries will be compelled to apply the same order that you have.  In all Europe great changes will take place.  Their states will be independent, ruled by local governments.  Indeed it is not just that a country should be ruled by one central government, because no matter how just and good the members of that centre may be, they are not fully acquainted with the necessary details of other localities and cities, and they do not strive for an equal progress in all the regions of the country.  For example:  Now all the Germans serve Berlin; all the French serve Paris; all the English kingdoms and colonies adorn London.  But your government has a good political order."
__________
Someone asked about the economic question.
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "America cannot be compared with Europe.  The problems of America in comparison to those of Europe are as nothing.  One of the problems of Europe is to maintain a great army.  All the French and German nations are soldiers.  But you are free from this great calamity.  You must thank God for saving you.  In the interior of America there is protection and safety.  The first banner of peace will rise here.  Know for a certainty that this will come to pass.  For man knows the result from the beginning.  The result will be that the peace which you have here among your people will, from here, be spread to other regions."
__________
Someone else asked regarding election and whether the country should be ruled by the people or by the wise ones among the people.
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "It is evident that it is better if the people elect the noble ones among them, and then these elect the president of the republic.  That is to say, the president should be the elect of the elect, because the public in general are not as well informed as they should be in regard to political affairs.  The common people follow fame.  In reality, whatever affair the wise people desire to execute, the common people agree to.  The affairs should be in the hands of the wise and not of the common people.  But the wise people must be in the utmost faithfulness and sincerity of purpose; they must serve all the people, and protect and safeguard their welfare.  Consider, if you put the general affairs into the hands of the common people they will be ruined.  If you put all the work into the hands of the labourer the house will not be built.  A wise architect is needed.  The work is done by the architect, but the common labourer suffers the hardships.  The general draws the map of war, but the common people do the fighting.  We cannot give them the map.  Is it possible to leave a regiment in the hands of a soldier?  But if we want to be victorious and conquerors, a wise, experienced person must be made commander."
__________
Someone asked in regard to the question of capital and labour.
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The solution of this problem is one of the fundamental principles of his holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  But it must be solved with justice and not with force.  If this problem is not solved lovingly it will result in war.  Perfect communism and equality are an impossibility because they would upset the affairs and the order of the world.  But there is a fair method which will not leave the poor in such need, nor the rich in such wealth.  The poor and the rich, according to their degrees, can live happily, with ease and tranquillity.  The first person in the world who had this idea was the king of Sparta.  He sacrificed his kingdom for this work.  He lived before Alexander the Great was born.  This thought came to his mind, that he could render a service which would be higher than all services and become the cause of happiness to many.  Thus he divided the people of Sparta
page 83
into three divisions.  One division consisted of the ancient inhabitants, and they were the farmers.  Another division consisted of the industrial people; another were the Greeks, who were originally from Phoenicia.  The name of this king was Lycurgus, He desired real equality among these three divisions, and in this manner established a just government.  He said that the ancient people, who were the farmers, were free from any obligation except that they had to pay one-tenth of their products and no more.  The people of industry and commerce had to pay yearly taxes and nothing else.  The third class, who were the nobles and descendants of the rulers, whose occupations were in politics, war and the defence of the country, had all the land of Sparta.  He measured the whole land and divided it equally among them.  For example, there were nine thousand of them.  He divided all the land in nine thousand equal parts and gave one part to each one of them.  He gave one-tenth of the product of each piece of land to the one who owned it.  He also made other laws and ordinances for the citizens.  When he found that he had accomplished what he wanted, he said:  'I am going to Syria, but I am afraid that after I go away you will change my laws.  Therefore, take an oath that you will not make any change before my return.'  They took an oath in the temple and assured him that they would never make any change and that they would maintain these laws always until the return of the king.  But the king left the temple, travelled and, never returned.  He gave up his kingdom in order that these laws might be preserved.  This equality of distribution, in a short time, became the cause of discord, because one of the men had five children, another three children, and another two children.  Differences accrued and the whole thing was upset.  Therefore the matter of equality is an impossibility.
"But here is the real solution.  The rich should be merciful to the poor, but with their free-will, not with force.  Should it be with force it would be useless.  It should be according to law and not by violence, so that through a general law everyone might know his duty.  For example, a rich person has a large income and a poor person a small income.  To put it in a more explicit way:  a rich person has ten thousand kilos of products, and a poor person has ten kilos.  Now is it fair to tax them equally?  Nay, rather, the poor person in this case must be exempt from taxes.  If the poor person gives one-tenth of his income and the rich person one-tenth of his income, it will be unjust.  Thus in this way a law should be made that the poor person who has only ten kilos and needs them all for his necessary food, be exempt from paying taxes.  But if the rich person, who has ten thousand kilos, pays one-tenth or two-tenths taxes on his products, it will not be a hardship to him.  For example, if he gives two thousand kilos, he will still have eight thousand kilos.  If a person has fifty thousand kilos, even though he gives ten thousand kilos, he will still have forty thousand kilos.  Therefore, laws must be made in this way.  These laws must do away with the present system of wages and earnings.  If today the owners of factories increase the wages of their employees, after a month or a year, they will again cry and strike and ask for more increase.  This work has no end.
"Now I want to tell you about the law of God.  According to the divine law no wages should be given to the employee.  Nay, rather, indeed they are partners in every work.  For example, the farmers plant near a village.  They get products from their cultivation.  They take one-tenth from the rich and the poor according to their income.  A general store may be built in that village for all incomes and products to be brought therein.  Then it will be considered who is rich and who is poor.  The farmers whose incomes are sufficient only for their food and ex-
page 84
penses must be free from paying taxes.  All products and incomes gathered and collected must be put in the general store.  If there is a helpless one in that village his daily needs must be given to him.  On the other hand, a rich person who needs only fifty kilos of products and still has five hundred thousand kilos, after all his expenses are paid, should be taxed two-tenths and at the end of the year whatever remains in the store should be distributed for the general expenses.
"The question of socialization is very important.  It will not be solved by strikes for wages.  All the governments of the world must be united and organize an assembly, the members of which should be elected from the parliaments and the nobles of the nations.  These must plan, with utmost wisdom and power, so that neither the capitalists suffer from enormous losses, nor the labourers become needy.  In the utmost moderation they should make the law, then announce to the public that the rights of the working people are to be strongly preserved.  Also the rights of the capitalists are to be protected.  When such a general plan is adopted by the will of both sides, should a strike occur, all the governments of the world collectively should resist it.  Otherwise, the work will lead to much destruction, especially in Europe.  Terrible things will take place.  One of the several causes of a universal European war will be this question.  For instance, the owners of properties, mines and factories should share their incomes with their employees, and give a fairly certain percentage of their products to their workingmen, in order that the employees may receive, beside their wages, some of the general income of the factory, so that the employee may strive with his soul in the work.
"No more trusts will remain in the future.  The question of the trusts will be wiped away entirely.  Also, every factory that has ten thousand shares, will give two thousand shares of these ten thousand to its employees, and will write them in their names, so that they may have them, and the rest will belong to the capitalists.  Then at the end of the month or year, whatever they may earn after the expenses and wages are paid, according to the number of shares, should be divided among both.  In reality, so far, great injustice has befallen the common people.  Laws must be made because it is impossible for the labourers to be satisfied with the present system.  They will strike every month and every year.  Finally, the capitalists will lose.  In the ancient times a strike occurred among the Turkish soldiers.  They said to the government:  'Our wages are very small and they should be increased.'  The government was forced to give them their demands.  Shortly afterwards they struck again.  Finally all the incomes went to the pockets of the soldiers, to the extent that they killed the king, saying:  'Why didst thou not increase the income, so that we might have received more?'
"It is impossible for a country to live easily without laws.  To solve this problem strong laws must be made, so that all the governments of the world be the protectors thereof.
"The essence of this matter is that strikes are conducive to destruction, but laws are the cause of life.  Laws must be framed.  Demands should be according to the laws, and not with strikes, force and harshness.  Tonight you have spoken of politics, but we are not accustomed to talk on politics.  We speak about the world of spirit.  We speak of the wealth of the kingdom, not of the wealth of the nether world.  Politics are obligatory matters, but eternal happiness cannot be obtained by force.  Happiness and force are impossible.  What is meant by happiness?  It means that the people should live according to the most perfect virtues of the world of humanity, and the power of the divine kingdom.  This is one story and that is another story."


VII:9, 20 August 1916
page 80
'Abdu'l-Bahá on spiritual happiness
It is natural that a passenger on board the steamer and sailing the great ocean may now witness the tumultuous waves of a wild storm and in the freedom and joyousness of his heart ride on the white crest of the iridescent and pearly foam, watching a world of surging waves battling against the sky, and again behold the sea tranquil, its surface like a mirror, reflecting therein the blue dome of heaven.  These experiences are the natural requirements of one's journey.  They have always been conducive to the enrichment of human nature.  But on the other hand, if the tranquillity become permanent and the traveller deprived of the wonderful sight of the waves, the sea not being stirred by the blowing of winds, this state is undesirable, for it is indicative of the fact that one's journey has come to an end.
Today my joy and happiness consists in the firmness and steadfastness of the believers of God, the attraction of the hearts with the fragrances of God, the detachment of the people from the inordinate desires of passion and self and their complete dependence on and communication with the kingdom of God.
There is no doubt that we do not find real joy and happiness through the songs of the singers, the music of the musicians and the flowers of the rose garden, nay rather our delight and exhilaration consists in the anthems of unity and the chorus of harmony raised from the assemblages of the friends of God, singing in the heavenly rose garden, their voices reaching to the ears of the people of the world and creating a divine attitude of beatitude and ecstasy. ..."
A portion of a tablet received from 'Abdu'l-Bahá, through Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, dated 20 March 1916, by Mr Horace Holley.
__________
"In the morning," writes Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, "I was busy reading an article in an American newspaper concerning the society organized in Cleveland to 'make happiness epidemic'.  'Abdu'l-Bahá came out of his room and walked in the garden for a few minutes.  I went out of the room
page 81
and joined him.  When I told him of the organization of such a society in America he laughed heartily and said:  'It is very good-the world needs more happiness and illumination.  The star of happiness is in every heart:  we must remove the clouds so that it may twinkle radiantly.  Happiness is an eternal condition.  When it is once established, man will ascend to the supreme heights of bliss.  A truly happy man will not be subject to the shifting eventualities of time.  Like unto an eternal king he will sit upon the throne of fixed realities.  He will be impervious to outward changing of circumstances and through his deeds and actions, impart happiness to others.  A Bahá'í must be happy, for the blessings of God are bestowed upon him.'"
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 7 January 1914.


VII:10, 8 September 1916
page 92
Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Syria, 21 June 1916.
Miss Gertrude Buikema and Mr Albert R. Windust
Miss Gertrude Buikema and Mr Albert R. Windust, Chicago, care J. H. Hannen, Washington, D.C.
...
To Mr Windust, Miss Buikema.
O ye two servants of the Kingdom of God!
Praise be to God, that your services are accepted in the divine threshold and your songs impart joy and happiness to the ears of the dwellers of the Kingdom.
Persia praises your articles and is praying to God that the ways may be opened and correspondence between Persia and America find the utmost expression and facility, so that your melodies and anthems may become conducive to the exhilaration and cheerfulness of the meetings of the spiritual ones.  What wonderful and joy imparting songs are raised from the pages of the Star of the West!  Truly, I say, they are the means of the happiness of many hearts.
Endeavour ye, as far as possible, to publish such valuable, interesting and instructive articles as to give joy and fra-
page 93
grance to the friends in all parts of the world.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Mrs Corinne True
Haifa, Syria, 10 July 1916.
To Mrs Corinne True, Chicago.
Care of Mr Joseph H. Hannen, Washington, D.C.
O thou my daughter of the Kingdom!
Praise be to God, that thou art assisted and confirmed in the service of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and art spending thy effort in the erection of this edifice.  The construction of this great building is the first divine foundation of the people of Unity in America and it will be like unto Mother unto the temples of God.  All the temples which will be built in the future are born from this great Temple.
God says in the great Qur'án:  "The building of the Mosques of God is carried along by those souls who believe in God and in the day of judgement."  In other words:  The construction of the divine mosques is undertaken by the believing, pure and blessed soul.  It is my hope that thou mayest become assisted in building this edifice and become conducive to the firmness of the people in the Covenant and Testament.
Endeavour thou as much as thou canst so that the members of thy household become believers in the Unity of God and declare:  "Verily, God is single!" become attracted to the Kingdom of God and the promoters of the divine teachings.
Convey my respected greeting to thy daughters.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
___________
Dr Díyá Baghdádí and Zynat Khánum
To Dr Díyá Baghdádí and Zynat Khánum, (Mrs Díyá M. Baghdádí,) Chicago.
O ye two doves of the nest of the Love of God!
Although it is a long time that no news has reached us from you, yet we are continually thinking of you.  You must at least send us a monthly post card giving us in brief the news of your health and safety and the spirituality of the friends of God.  For this will become conducive to the happiness of the hearts.  Praise be to God, that under the shade of divine Providence we are safe and enjoy good health, expressing our thanks at the threshold of the Al-
page 94
mighty.  In the great Book, the divine Qur'án, God says:  "If ye offer praise unto me, I will increase my favours unto you."  Therefore we have unloosened our tongues in continual thanksgiving, supplicating confirmation and assistance from the spirituality of his holiness Muhammad-Mustafá, the Messenger of God-upon him be praise.  We are likewise praying for your success and prosperity.  The mother of thy respected wife, her brothers and sister are all well and in good health.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Syria, 22 June 1916.
__________
Mr Joseph H. Hannen
To Mr Joseph H. Hannen, Washington, D.C.
Upon him be greeting and praise!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Praise be to God, that the friends of God in Washington are occupied in the service of the Kingdom and are displaying perfect firmness and steadfastness in the faith.  The meetings which are being organized are in reality the reflections of the Supreme Concourse.  The sweet breezes which are wafting toward us from America and the perfumed air which reaches our nostrils from that far off region are most fragrant; therefore they impart joy and happiness to all the hearts.
Convey to his honour Doctor ... my longing greeting and say to him:  I have not forgotten his kindness, and it is my hope that, in accord with the divine teachings, he may become the ensign and the flag of the oneness of the world of humanity.
Announce to the maid-servant of God, thy respected wife, my wonderful, glorious greeting.
Upon thee be greeting and praise.
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, at Haifa, Syria, 10 April 1916.
__________
Mr Charles Mason Remey
To his honour Mr Charles Mason Remey, Washington, D.C.
Upon him be greeting and praise!
O thou herald of Reality!
Thou hast written that thou art spending the winter with thy parents, but thou dost not know thy duty for the spring and summer.  The best way is this, in company with his honour Mr George Latimer travel thou throughout America and the Hawaiian Islands and summon thou the people to the Kingdom of God.  The doors of investigation are open and the people of reality are running to and fro.  In these days great capacity is witnessed in America and the population is ready to listen to the divine teachings.  Synthesize and compose ye in a simple and effective manner the heavenly principles and present them to the listeners in meetings and gatherings.  Through the ideal glad-tidings and the lordly suggestions breathe ye a new spirit into the hearts of the friends of God and encourage and incite them in the promotion of the word of God.  Convey to all the friends my longing greeting, especially his honour Mr George Latimer.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, at Haifa, Syria, 14 April 1916.
page 95
__________
Mrs J. P. Addison
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs J. P. Addison, Portland, Oregon.
Upon her be greeting and praise!  O thou respected maid-servant!
The letter that thou hast written to his honour Sohráb was perused.  Praise be to God, that it contained the good news of the health and safety of the friends of the Almighty.  It was also a proof of their firmness and steadfastness in religion and faith.  Thank ye God that ye presented yourselves in the divine International Congress in California and were engaged in the service of the word of God.  Consider ye the power and the influence of the celestial teachings that the President of the Exposition expressed his gratitude and thankfulness for your services to the world of humanity.  Truly I say the believers of God in that Congress became assisted in the accomplishment of most great services.  The photograph of the Congress was also received and imparted great happiness.  The persons who delivered speeches at its sessions, such as Dr F. W. D'Evelyn, Mr Hooper Harris, Mr Charles Mason Remey, Mr Howard MacNutt, Mr William H. Randall, Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, Mr Howard C. Ives, Mr William H. Hoar, Mr Joseph H. Hannen, Mr Albert R. Windust, Mr Alfred E. Lunt, Mr Albert H. Hall, Mr Edwin T. Cooper, Mr Harlan F. Ober, Mr J. A. Britton, Mrs Mary Hanford Ford, Mr William C. Ralston and Mírzá Khán were assisted with divine confirmations and inspired with the powers of the Holy Spirit.  The results and spiritual influences of those talks are endless and eternal.  They will become apparent in the future.
Likewise the meetings which were held in the city of Portland and the persons who spoke to the various audiences were supremely assisted by the angels of the Supreme Concourse.  They scattered pure seeds in that virgin western soil.  Truly, I say, Mr Remey and Mr Latimer are displaying the utmost effort in the diffusion of the fragrances of God.  I supplicate and entreat toward the Kingdom of God and beg for each and all heavenly confirmation and assistance.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb at Haifa, Syria, 18 March 1916.


VII:10, 8 September 1916
page 95
The importance of teaching
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 31 October 1913.
Mírzá 'Alí Akbar, the friend of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and the friend of the friends, left the "headquarters of the Commander-in-Chief for an active engagement at the front."  'Abdu'l-Bahá took him into the rose garden this morning, and while walking among the flower beds spoke to him these words of kindness and love:
"Thou hast been with me for a long time, and I have grown to love thee very much.  When I love people I do not tell them to their faces.  You know how much I love Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl and Hájí Mírzá Haydar 'Alí, but I have seldom told them to their faces.  I am sending thee away.  Thou art not alone.  The hosts of the Supreme Concourse are with thee.  They will assist thee and reinforce thee under all conditions.  Doctors tell me
page 96
I must completely rest (and he turned his wondrous eyes straight to him).  I don't listen to them.  When I hear good news from the believers, then my health is improved.  Now, if thou longest to see me in good condition, go away and serve the Cause and teach the souls.  The news of the spiritual conquest will make me well.  Wherever thou goest announce my wonderful Bahá'í greeting to the teachers of the Cause, and tell them on my behalf:
"'The responsibility for the steady progress of the cause depends upon you.  You are the physicians of the sick body of the world of humanity.  You must not stay anywhere for a long time.  Travel from land to land like the apostles of Christ, and carry with you the glad tidings of the Kingdom of Abhá to the remotest corners of the earth.  Why are ye silent?  Shout!  Why are ye sitting?  Move!  Why are ye quiet?  Stir!  This is not the day of rest and comfort.  Travel ye constantly, and spread far and wide the teachings of God.  Like unto the stars arise ye every day from a new horizon.  Like unto the nightingale, sing every day from a different rose bush.  Like unto the breeze, waft every morning from a new garden.  Do not stay a long time anywhere.  Let the world profit by your lessons and learn from your example.  My health consists in the progress of the Cause, and the progress of the Cause depends upon the energy and wisdom of the teachers.'"
Later, he said:  "The friends of God must devote all their time to teaching the Cause, and spreading the rays of the Sun of Truth.  You see how dark the world is; they must illumine it.  How materialistic are the people; they must spiritualize them.  How negligent they are; they must make them aware."
I bring this letter to a close by giving you the translation of a Tablet revealed the other night to a believer in Persia, showing again how important is teaching the Cause in these days:
O thou who art chosen by 'Abdu'l-Bahá for the diffusion of the fragrances of God!
Thy letter was received.  Praise be to God, that in Moraghe thou hast become confirmed and assisted.  Today no praiseworthy action can be compared with teaching the Cause of the forgiving Lord.  For this is the seed sowing time.  Every real farmer engages his time, at this season, in seed sowing.  But the heedless ones during the seed sowing period think of the time of harvest.  Harvesting is one of the departments of agriculture, but not in the time of seed sowing.  The crop is the result of farming, but not at the time of irrigation.  Now-praise be to God!-that thou hast occupied all thy time in seed sowing, unquestionably thou shalt become assisted and aided.  Travel thou in all the cities of Azarbayjan [Ádhirbáyján] and guide the souls to the fountain of light.  And when thou findest time, journey through Caucasia and guide the people to the religion of God.  All the countries have attained to the greatest capacity, but very little teaching is done. ...
In another Tablet, to the Assembly of Teaching in Hamadán, he says:
O ye blessed souls!
Many assemblies are formed and organized in this world, but the name of this assembly is the hope of the people of heart.  It is indicative of teaching, and from the Kingdom of Abhá is honoured with the eloquent Farmán.
"Assembly" means the diffusion of the fragrances of God.  "Assembly" means humility and friendliness toward the believers of God.  "Assembly" means the promotion of the word of God.  "Assembly" means to be sanctified and holy from all else save God.  Such is the spiritual assembly.  Such is the divine meeting.  Such is the Lordly congregation.  The ultimate desire of 'Abdu'l-
page 97
Bahá is the organization of such assemblies, and he is their servant.  For this servitude is the crown of eternal sovereignty, and this thraldom is freedom in both worlds.
Therefore, O friends, strive with heart and soul, so that you may become a life member and an eternal organ of the Heavenly Assembly, and the meeting of the Kingdom of Abhá! ...


VII:10, 8 September 1916
page 97
Portion of Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Persian Bahá'ís
After my return from America and Europe, owing to the difficulties of the long voyage and the innumerable inconveniences of the journey, a reaction set in and I became sick.  Now, through the favour and bounty of the Blessed Perfection, I am feeling better; therefore I am engaged in writing to thee this letter, so that thou mayest realize the friends of God are never forgotten under any circumstances.  Now is the time that the believers of God may imitate the conduct and the manner of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Day and night they must engage in teaching the Cause of God, but they must be imbued with the same spiritual state that 'Abdu'l-Bahá manifested while travelling in America.  When the teacher delivers an address, first of all his own words must have a supreme and powerful effect over himself, so that every one in turn may be affected.  His utterance must be like unto the flame of fire, burning away the veils of dogmas, passion and desire.  Moreover, he must be in the utmost state of humility and evanescence, that others may be mindful.  He must have attained the station of renunciation and annihilation.  Then, and not until then, will he teach the people with the melody of the Supreme Concourse.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 27 July  1913, Ramleh, Egypt.


VII:10, 8 September 1916
page 97
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá on teaching
Extracts from His Utterances
O thou seeker of the Kingdom of God, if thou wishest thy speech and utterance to take effect in hardened hearts, be thou severed from all attachment to this world and turn unto the Kingdom of God.  Enkindle the fire of the love of God in thy heart with such intensity that thou mayest become a flame of fire and a luminous lamp of guidance.  At that time thy speech and utterance will take effect within the hearts through the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.
__________
I wish you to become detached from the entire world of existence, to turn to the Kingdom of Abhá with a pure heart, with a pure breath to teach the people.
__________
The daughters of the Kingdom should not have a desire.
__________
Verily the Holy Spirit breathes in this day into the hearts which are moving, breathing, pure and attracted by the love of God.
__________
The penetration of the word of man depends upon the heat of the fire of the love of God.  The more the splendours of
page 98
the love of God become manifest in the heart, the greater will be the penetration of the word.
__________
I declare by the bounty of the Blessed Perfection, that nothing will produce results save intense sincerity!  Nothing will be productive of fruit save complete advancement toward God!  Everything is condemned save severance, and every idea is fruitless and unacceptable save supplication, communion, prayer and obedience.  We must entirely collect our scattered thoughts, purify and sanctify the house of our existence from every attachment, and make the palace of our hearts the nest and shelter of the dove of holiness.  Then, and not till then, will the significance of confirmation and assistance become evident and known, the power of the Kingdom become apparent, and the hosts of the Supreme Concourse run swiftly into the arena of heavenly conquest, to gain victory over the east and west of the hearts, and make the north and south of the spirits of men the flowery regions of the love of God.
__________
We must entirely focus our thoughts upon the diffusion of the divine light and the building of the heavenly foundation.
__________
O God, make all my ideals and thoughts one ideal and one thought and suffer me to attain to an eternal, unchangeable condition in thy service!
__________
I ask of God, and I supplicate and entreat at the threshold of Oneness, that thy utmost desire may become realized.  The desire of the sanctified souls is always sacrifice in the path of God, attraction to the merciful fragrances, the vivification of the souls, the proclamation of the universal peace, the establishment of the oneness of humanity and the enkindlement of the fire of the love of God in the souls of men.  It is my hope that the desire of the friends of God be as such, so that they may be released from the influences of the ephemeral world, shine in the kingdom of eternity, be exhilarated by the wine of the love of God, and, like unto the tempestuous sea, rage and roar with the ardour of the love of God.  I desire this station for thee.
__________
Today the greatness of the believers of God depends upon delivering the Cause of God, diffusing the fragrances of God, self-sacrifice in the love of Bahá'u'lláh, and attainment to attraction, love, knowledge and wisdom.  This door is open before the face of everyone and this arena is spacious for the skill of all.  Everyone must think of this alone, and know that success and prosperity depend upon it.
__________
Whenever the heart finds attraction, the spirit seeks ecstasy and exultation and turns itself toward the Kingdom, the confirmation of the Holy Spirit will descend.  Thou wilt be taught and encouraged; thy tongue will be loosened, uttering clear and decisive explanations.  Therefore, when one has attained to spiritual success and prosperity, material advantage will not be of much importance.  Consequently, if thou art desiring to become assisted in the service, detach thyself from the world, and become thou attracted to the merciful fragrances.  Seek his (God's) remembrance day and night, discover his path and announce his mystery.  Then thou wilt find thyself in such a condition that thy breath will become effective in every soul.
__________
I now assure thee, O servant of God, that if thy mind becomes empty and pure of every mention and thought and thy heart attracted wholly to the Kingdom of God, forgetting all else besides God and becoming communicative with the Spirit of God, then the Holy Spirit will assist thee with a power which will enable thee to penetrate all things, and a dazzling spark which enlightens all sides, a brilliant flame in the
page 99
zenith of the heavens will teach thee that which you do not know of the facts of the universe and of the divine doctrine.  Every soul who ariseth today to guide others to the path of safety and imbue in them the spirit of life, the Holy Spirit will inspire that soul with evidences, proofs and facts and the lights will shine upon it, from the Kingdom of God.
__________
Rest assured ... the breaths of the Holy Spirit will aid you provided no doubts obtain in your heart.  Know this for a certainty.2
__________
To be engaged in diffusing the fragrance of God (leaching the Truth) in one hour of time, is better than the dominion of the world and all therein; for the latter is mortal and temporary, while the former is permanent and endless.
__________
Thou hast written what shouldst thou do and what prayer shouldst thou offer in order to become informed of the mysteries of God:  Pray thou with an attracted heart and supplicate with a spirit stirred by the glad tidings of God.  Then the doors of the kingdom of mysteries shall be opened before thy face, and thou shalt comprehend the realities of all things.
__________
I desire every Bahá'í to be severed and detached.  If he passes between two mountains of gold, he must not look to either side.  These souls who have entered under the shade of the Blessed Perfection must show such independence as to astonish the people of the world.  If men come to them with money and supplicate to them to accept it, they must reject it.
__________
He who is filled with the love of the Glory (of God) and forgets all things, the Holy Spirit will be heard from his lips and the spirit of life will fill his heart, the light of the sign will shine forth from his face, the words will issue from his mouth in strands of pearls, and all sickness and disease will be healed by the laying on of his hands.
How may we move and transform the hearts?
Teach as if offering a gift to a king, humbly and submissively, not with the force of insistence-imperatively, strenuously-but with gentleness and sweetness, submitting the arguments and truths to the heart and intellect of the hearer.  Be as the servant of God, and therefore the servant of the hearer, taking care at all times to adapt the offered food to the condition and station of the listener, giving milk to babes and meat to those who have grown stronger.  This food is to be offered for the sake of God only, not for the love of the hearer nor for the benefit of oneself but simply because God wishes his Manifestation to become known and to be loved by those who come to know him.
If one teaches one whom he loves because of his love, then he will not teach him whom he loves not and this is not of God.  If one teaches in order to derive the promised benefit himself, this, too, is not of God.  If he teaches because of God's will, that God may become known and for that reason only, he will receive knowledge and wisdom and his words will have effect and will take root in the souls of those who are in the right condition to receive them, for they will have been made more powerful by the Holy Spirit.  In such a case the benefit to the teacher in growth is as ninety parts compared to the ten parts of gain received by the hearer; for the teacher becomes like a tree bearing fruit through the power of God.
A compilation.


VII:10, 8 September 1916
page 100
The Cause of the creation of all contingent beings has been love, as it is mentioned in the famous tradition:  "I was a hidden treasure, and I loved to be known.  Therefore I created the creation in order to be known."  Thus all must gather on the (shores) of the river of the love of God in such wise that there should not blow any wind of discord among the friends and companions.  All should look to love, and conduct (the life) in the utmost of unity so that there should not be seen any difference among them (the friends), and they should share with one another loss and gain, hard time and welfare, and accidents.  We hope, God willing, that the breeze of unity will waft from the city of the Lord of the servants, and all be clothed with the raiment of unity, love and resignation.
Bahá'u'lláh
Translated by Bozorgzadeh E. Kahn.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 23 May 1916.


VII:11, 27 September 1916
page 104
"Let not these golden days slip by without results"
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb,
Ramleh, Egypt, 29 October 1913.
Dear friends,
Mrs Stannard left this morning for Cairo, to prepare herself for the trip to India.  Before her departure 'Abdu'l-Bahá called her into his presence and spoke to her as follows:
"Consecrate all thy time to the service of the Kingdom of God and the propagation of its principles.  Let thy one supreme concern be the promotion of the word of God.  Thou wilt ever be surrounded by the invisible angels of confirmations and they will always come to thy assistance.  Whenever thou dost enter a meeting, raise thy voice and say:
"'O ye believers of God!  This day is the day of your attraction!  This day is the day in which you must diffuse the fragrance of God!  This day is the day that you must unfurl the banner of the kingdom of Abhá!  This day is the day of peace and concord!  This day is the day of the proclamation of the Oneness of the world of humanity!  This day is the day of forgiveness and leniency!  This day is the day of truth and righteousness!  This day is the day of conciliation and beatitude!  This day is the day of awakening and enkindlement!
"'Waste not your precious time in fault-finding and backbiting.  Polish the surface of the mirrors of your hearts from the dross of human frailties.  If you live according to the standard of other communities, then what difference does there exist between you and them?  Bahá'u'lláh has summoned you to such a lofty summit that the very thought thereof is too dazzling a prospect!  He has not chosen you to be satisfied with water and clay!'
"Thou must live in such a spiritual condition that thy very presence in the meetings may transform the audience into the congregations of the elect and set aglow in the hearts the fire of the love of God.  Exalt thy ambition.  Universalize thy ideals.  Spread thy wings of compassion over all the regions of the
page 105
globe.  If some people come to thee alone complaining against each other, don't listen to them, don't let them breathe the faults of others in thy presence.  Tell them:  'I have not come here to engage my time with these things.  I am not a judge.  I have come to summon the people to the Kingdom of Abhá, to call you to unity and accord, to raise the dead, make mindful those who are unaware, awaken those who are asleep, breathe new life into the mouldering bones and sound the trumpet of resurrection.  Friends, it is high time for you to throw away these tales, these barren stories.  God is not pleased with them, humanity is not pleased with them.  Your time is too costly to be expended on these trifling events.  You are made in the image and likeness of God.  Your birthright is more valuable than all the treasures of the empires.  Arise with heart and soul and let not these golden days slip by without results.  This day is the day of the splendours of the Sun of Reality.  This day is the day of the Lord of the Kingdom.  This day is the day of the fulfilment of glorious promises.  This day is the day of joy and fragrance.  These petty backbitings and jealousies make one lose all the traces of spirituality, excommunicate a person from the divine company of the worthy ones, submerge one in the sea of phantasms, suffer one to become cold and pessimistic and throw him headlong into the death of despair and haunting hopelessness.'
"You must not listen to anyone speaking about another, because no sooner do you listen than you must listen to someone else and thus the circle will be enlarged endlessly.  Therefore, O friends!  Let us come together, forget all our self-thoughts and be in one accord, and cry at the top of our voices 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!'"
Later someone spoke of recent news from the Persian Gulf and how one of the Bahá'ís has been persecuted.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"Happy is his condition, for in this latter part of his life he has become the object of sufferings in the path of God!  May we all attain to this great gift!"
In the afternoon 'Abdu'l-Bahá started off for a walk.  Having reached the telegraph office at the Bacos station, the ascended the few steps of the modest building and sat on the chair which was offered him by the chief operator.  'Abdu'l-Bahá used to come often to talk with him, or in other words, to "elbow with men and mix with them", right in the market place.  How wonderful it seems to me, his power of adaptability to all people, under most peculiar circumstances!  How he brings himself to the intellectual or moral level of the listener and how he enjoys the free and unimpeded association of men!  Here was 'Abdu'l-Bahá sitting in a small telegraph office of Ramleh, talking heartily in Arabic with an operator and how he listened to him.  First he spoke about the brother of the Khedive, and how he met him in America and France, praising his progressive ideas and intelligence.  Then he said:
"When I was in America I was most busy.  Often I addressed three meetings a day, and gave innumerable interviews from early morning till midnight.  In Europe I spread certain divine teachings which will insure security to the human world, and taught them that the foundation of the religions of God is one and the same.  Now I have returned to Egypt in order to rest from the effects of this arduous journey; but while I am here correspondence is uninterrupted with all parts of the West.  All the newspapers and magazines published my addresses and the western world is ringing with this call.  I have done this, not because I expected the praise of men.  Far from it!  How foolish are some people who may think that we have accepted all these hardships and undergone forty years of imprisonment by Sultán 'Abdu'l Hamíd, in order to receive the commendations of men!  How
page 106
thoughtless they are!  Neither their adulation or blame shall reach me.  I have done my work!  I have sown my seeds, and leave it to the power of God to cause their growth!  You wait a few years longer and you will then hear the notes of this melodious music!
"Once upon a time there was a poor fellah (farmer) who cultivated a patch of ground with cotton.  His neighbouring farmers were all rich landlords and Pashas and so they prevented in a high handed manner this poor fellah from receiving his just share of water wherewith to irrigate his parched farm.  He appealed several times to their fair sense of justice but they laughed him out of their presence.  Finally, realizing that his cotton would dry and his labours fail, he went one midnight and changed the current of the stream toward his own farm and irrigated it most thoroughly.  When in the morning the landlords saw what their daring neighbour had done, they sent for him and rebuked him severely.  Not being satisfied with this, they bastinadoed him very hard.  While he was undergoing this cruel punishment he cried out:  'O ye men!  I have already irrigated my farm; this will do you no good.  I have saved the destruction of my crop by the drought!  Why do you inflict upon me such a useless torture?  The earth is watered.'
"In a similar manner we have done our work; the censure and criticism of all mankind will not undo it.  It is said that late at night a man was passing a house.  He saw a man digging patiently and laboriously and quietly at the wall.  'What art thou doing?' he asked.  'Oh, I am digging away the foundation' the man in the dark answered.  'For what purpose?'  'To rob the house.'  'But no one hears the noise of thy hammer, how is that?'  'There is yet time; tomorrow they will hear it.  Its noise shall fill the whole town.'  Now, before long the people of the Orient will be awakened and hear the great tones of the new music of God!"
Bidding the delighted operator goodbye, he arose from his seat and returned homeward.
Mrs von Lilienthal and Mrs Beede called on 'Abdu'l-Bahá and had many spiritual questions to ask.  One question was about the fishes and the five loaves.
"The five loaves," he explained, "are the five different kinds of teaching with which Christ satisfied a hungry multitude and the twelve baskets left over were the disciples."
When the interview came to an end, he said:
"My hope is that in this dark world you may become like brilliant torches, illumining the gloomy path of the wandering travellers."
(Signed) Ahmad Sohráb


VII:11, 27 September 1916
page 106
Let there be peace
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá given in Paris, France, 23 November 1911, during the war between Italy and Tripoli.
They say that a train fell in the Seine river and twenty-five persons were drowned.  Today on account of this tragedy there will be a detailed discussion in parliament.  They have arrested the manager of the railroad.  Great disputes will take place-fierce disturbances!  I was very much astonished that for twenty-five persons who fell in the river and drowned, such a strange tumult appeared in the parliament; but for Tripoli, where thousands are being killed in a day, they never say a word.  Undoubtedly, so far at least, five thousand persons have been killed.  It never occurs to the parliament that these
page 107
persons are human.  It is as if they were stones.  What is the reason that the parliament is in this way disturbed over twenty-five persons and never speaks of the five thousand?  The twenty-five are human and the five thousand are human.  All are descendants of Adam.  The reason is that the five thousand are not of the French nation.  It does not matter if they are cut in pieces.  Behold, what injustice, what senselessness, what ignorance!  Although these helpless ones in Tripoli have father, mother, son, daughter and wife, they cut them into shreds.  What harm have they done?  I read in the paper that even in Italy the cry and the wailing of the people is rising.  The weeping and wailing of both the Arab and Italian women are rising.  The eyes of the mothers are filled with tears; the hearts of the fathers are drowned in blood; the weeping and crying of the children reach to the summit of heaven.  Behold, how bloodthirsty are human beings!  Behold, how deceitful is man, how heedless of God!  If, instead of using knives, swords, bullets, guns, men should rejoice, be glad, feast and associate with one another in harmony and love; if, in the state of tranquillity, they should become intoxicated with the wine of happiness, if they should become friends and companions and embrace each other, would it not be better?  Which is better:  to be like thankful birds and fly together, or to be as bloodthirsty wolves and attack, and devour one another and shed each the other's blood?
Why should man be so heedless?  It is because he does not know God.  If men knew God they would love one another:  if they had spiritual susceptibilities they would have unfurled the banner of the great peace and if they had listened to the exhortations of the prophets unquestionably they would have established justice.  Therefore, pray, implore and supplicate God to guide them, give them mercy, give them reasoning minds and give them spiritual susceptibilities.  Perchance these helpless human beings may live in peace.  The wise man weeps day and night over the condition of mankind.  He cries and sighs that perchance the heedless ones may be awakened, the blind may see, the dead become alive and the oppressors grant justice.  I will pray.  You must also pray.
Translated by Dr Díyá Baghdádí, 19 June 1916, Chicago, Illinois.


VII:11, 27 September 1916
page 107
"Love is the foundation of everything"
Notes of Miss Ethel J. Rosenberg, London, England, taken in 'Akká, January 1909.
I asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá what could be done to increase our numbers and make the work more effective.
He said the one essential, the only thing to do was that the members of the little groups should love each other very much and be devoted friends.  The more they loved each other, the more the meetings would attract and draw others, and the more they loved, the more their influence would be felt.  He said we must consider all people-not only believers-to be good.  He hoped every one would be good.
He added, "I say this for you in English.  I do not often do that; but I say also in English, that you may understand how much I mean it, that love is the foundation of every thing and that all must be good."
While looking from the window, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "We hear the murmur of the sea always continuing.  It never ceases.  Were it to cease, the world would
page 108
be dead, stagnant, lifeless.  But the waves of the mind of man are far greater than those of the sea; they also are ceaseless.  They never stop for one instant.  This movement is good.  If these waves of the mind are few, the man is dull and quiet.  What pearls and jewels are contained in the depths of the sea!  But the pearls and jewels hidden in the mind of man are the knowledge, virtues, capabilities, etc.  These pearls can grow and increase in lustre forever, but the pearls of the sea remain always the same.  These waves from our minds go forth and create movement and thought in other minds.  From one strong thought of love what great results may be produced!"
__________
A question sent by a Bahá'í:  "What is the meaning of Christ's eating the fish and honey after his resurrection?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "All these things, the fish, the honeycomb, etc., are symbols and were meant to be understood spiritually, just as the resurrection itself was a spiritual resurrection.  But because the people who received these teachings from the first teachers were ignorant, they understood them literally."
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "We know that the body or form has nothing to do with spirit or spiritual conditions.  When the spirit is disconnected from or leaves the body, that is no reason for thinking it can be re-absorbed or joined with the whole of spirit, as the drops of water are absorbed or lost in the sea.  The earth is one unit, yet how many beings and separate parts it contains!  The body of man is one unit, yet it has an infinite number of separate and individual parts that compose it-such as eyes, fingers, etc.; so, in like manner, spirit is one, but consisting of many differentiated parts."
__________
During a former visit to 'Akká, when conditions for the prisoners were most severe, Miss Rosenberg was deeply distressed and asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá why he, who was so perfect, should have to endure such sufferings.
He answered:  "How could they (God's teachers) teach and guide others in the way if they themselves did not undergo every species of suffering to which other human beings are subjected?"
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá says:
"If any troubles or vicissitudes come into your lives-if your heart is depressed on account of health, livelihood or vocation, let not these things affect you.  These things should not cause unhappiness.  Heavenly food has he prepared for you; everlasting glory has he bestowed upon you.  Therefore these Glad Tidings should cause you to soar in the atmosphere of joy forever and ever.  You must render thanks unto God forever so that the confirmations of God may encircle you all."


VII:12, 16 October 1916
page 115
"Sacrifice of life is of two kinds"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Extracts from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to us about the lives of several Persian Bahá'ís who have made all sacrifices and yet they think they have done nothing.
"Such souls are the jewels of existence," he said.
Looking up at the star Venus, which was shining in the horizon like a blazing torch, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Do you see that brilliant star?  I declare ... that it is my fondest hope to see each one of the believers of God shining like unto this star.  I wish for them this illumination; I desire for them this luminosity, so that they may rejoice the hearts and spiritualize the souls.  But alas!  How often they let the cloud of the ego darken the horizon and thus prevent the stars of their divine verities from shining."  Here he stopped and looked again earnestly at the brilliant orb, and said:  "It shines clearest at the early dawn.  So, at this dawn of the Sun of Reality the stars of our lives must glisten and gleam in the darkness of the world."
__________
Truly I say unto thee, every maidservant who arises in this day in the mystery of sacrifice in the path of God will become one of the stars of guidance in the supreme horizon; all in the heaven, and earth will be illumined by her face; the angels of the Supreme Concourse will speak in her praise and she will be
page 116
encompassed with the favours of the Kingdom of Abhá.
__________
As long as one has not taken a portion of the mystery of sacrifice, it is impossible for him to attain to the Kingdom of God.  So long as you do not have the cup free from every sort of liquor is it possible for you to put good and pure water therein?
__________
Sacrifice of life is of two kinds.  To be killed for the Cause is not so difficult as to live for it in absolute obedience to the commands of God.  To attain to the condition of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl who cares for nothing in this world save to write something for the Cause that will be of benefit, or like Mírzá Haydar 'Alí who cares not for money, clothes, or even food, but only to teach someone something about the Kingdom,-is real attainment to the plain of sacrifice!  And without attaining this condition all effort is without any final result.  One who cares for love, for husband, wife or children more than for the Cause of God has not attained.


VII:13, 4 November 1916
page 117
The three realities
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at "The White Lodge," Wimbledon,
England, Friday evening, 3 January 1913.
How beautiful it is to organize such lovely gatherings that are not based upon the pursuit of the material principles of life!  Such gatherings belong to the study and the investigation of spiritual facts. ...  The spiritual power has gathered us together.  Our aim is to discover the realities of phenomena. ...
[The bulk of this talk is to be found in Foundations of World Unity, pp. 51-53, under the heading "The microcosm and the macrocosm".]
page 124
... This fact is self-evident and manifest.
Those people who have harkened to the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh-Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Zoroastrians, Buddhists, Jews-such people have discarded their past rancour and are associating with the utmost love and unity.  Take my example and see with what degree of love I am associating with you tonight, loving you with all my heart and soul.  In the same way all those people are living together, with the utmost accord and unity, to such an extent that they are ready to sacrifice their possessions and lives for each other; and to such an extent has the transformation been wrought that they are ever self-sacrificing for each other.  Were you to enter into any (Bahá'í) gathering in the Orient, it would be very hard for you to discover who is a Christian and who is a Jew, or who is a Zoroastrian, for they are just like so many flames which have become one big flame. (Applause)  All these different faiths are merging into one great faith.
Reprinted from The Path, February 1913.


VII:13, 4 November 1916
page 121
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Haifa, Syria, 7 March 1916.
Received by Helen S. Goodall and Ella G. Cooper,
8 August 1916.
To the friends of God, men, women and children in the photograph of the First International Bahá'í Congress, San Francisco, California-Upon them be greeting and praise!
O you real friends and lovers of the Kingdom of God!
In these days the scroll of the photograph of the blessed faces of those pure souls, which was taken during the Panama-Pacific International Exposition, was received.
Praise be to God, that the faces are radiant, indicating the sanctification of the hearts.  All those who have looked at the photograph have obtained immediate joy-outflowing, and inexhaustible.
I beg infinite grace from the Kingdom of God for each one of those friends who were present in that gathering, wishing for them heavenly powers so that the members of that congress may irradiate the white rays of the Sun of Reality to all parts and illumine the cities, counties, towns and villages of the United States.
The magnet whereby to attract these favours and bounties, is firmness and steadfastness.
Upon you be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VII:13, 4 November 1916
page 122
"I never ask anyone to send me money"
A Talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mr Remey and Mr Latimer at Haifa, 15 October 1914.
When you return to America say to all the believers in my behalf that whenever a person comes to that country, no matter to what nationality he may belong, and tries to collect money in my name, know that it has no connection with me.  I am free from it.  Whosoever asks for money for me, does so of his own volition.  There are some people who desire to collect money under all kinds of pretexts.  I desire to impress upon your minds that I have nothing to do with such affairs.  I never ask anyone to send me money.
Whosoever loves money does not love God and whosoever loves God does not love money.
On the other hand, if some of the believers voluntarily desire to help and assist one another or some philanthropic institutions, whose objects are for the public welfare and progress, it is very good and praiseworthy.  I do not desire that anyone shall ask money in my name for any affair.  The souls must be detached from the world.  Those souls who are attached to this world and its wealth are deprived of spiritual advancement.
The believers must live such an independent life that if one comes and begs them to accept money, they should refuse him.  As long as the souls are not severed, how do they expect to journey along the ideal path?
On the eve of my departure from New York, I told a number of believers that his holiness Christ has stated that "when you leave a city, shake its dust from off your feet."  So far, very few people have lived according to this behest, but it is my will to live accordingly.  Before coming to America, the believers of God, through Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, offered for my travelling expenses $16,000 but I did not accept one cent.  Man must live in the utmost sanctity and purity and he must ever think to assist others and not beg assistance from them.
In short, may you ever be confirmed and assisted.  May you ever be illumined; may you ever be the means of the guidance of the people; may you ever breathe the breath of life in the hearts; may you be the signs of mercy to all mankind; may you be the shining lamps of severance and detachment in this dark world.


VII:14, 23 November 1916
page 127
"This Movement is stupendous and of paramount importance"
Tablet Revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant.
HE IS GOD!
O God!  O God!  Thou dost behold me, how my forehead is laid upon the dust of humility and submission and how my face is covered in the ground of the threshold of thy singleness.  O thou my Lord, the Unconstrained!  Thou seest me lowly and contrite, supplicating, entreating and imploring toward the Kingdom of thy light by day and by night, that thou encircle us with the eye of thy providence and the glances of the outlook of thy mercifulness.
O Lord!  Forgive our sins, pardon our shortcomings and deal with us through thy grace and generosity under all circumstances.  O our Lord!  We are sinners, but thou art the merciful forgiver.  We are transgressors, but thou art the clement pardoner.  Absolve our iniquities, remove our sorrows, destine for us through thy bestowal severance from the world, occupation with thy mentioning, enkindlement with the fire of thy love, perpetual contemplation of thy signs, the knowledge of thy words, meditation over thy verses and the attraction of thy lights.
O Lord!  O Lord!  These are thy servants; they have turned their faces toward thy countenance and they have resolved their joy and happiness in thy favour and bounty.  Strengthen their backs in thy obedience.  Reinforce their lives in thy adoration.  Perfume their hearts with the fragrances of thy holiness.  Ordain for them presence in the paradise of thy meeting.  Suffer them to become such servants as peruse the verses of unity in the assemblages held in thy name; that attract the rays of singleness from the lamp of thy bestowal; as those drawn towards thy beauty, humble before thy glory; who have abandoned aught else save thee and are relying upon thy protection and preservation; as those rendered meek by the sway of thy Word, made submissive before thy beloved ones; as those diffusing thy fragrances, disclosing thy mysteries, informing people with thy teachings and suffering mankind to become rejoiced through thy glad-tidings.  Verily, thou art powerful over that which thou willest and thou feedest whomsoever thou desirest with thy hand.  The world and the Kingdom belong to thee and thou art the mighty, the omnipotent and the beloved!
O ye believers of God!  O ye dear friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
The goblet of the Covenant is overflowing and the outpouring of the bestowal of the Luminary of Effulgence is manifest and apparent in the regions from behind the invisible world, like unto the radiant moon.  The twilight of the Moon of Guidance is scattered and the grace of the Orb of the Beauty of Abhá is continuous and renowned.  The fame of the grandeur of the Most Great Name hath reached the East and the West and the call of the Cause of the
page 130
Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh) hath encircled the North and the South.  The fragrances of sanctity are being wafted and the breeze of life is passing by.  The Word of God is upheld and the everlasting glory is revealed.  The lamp of divine unity is ignited and the flame of clemency is glowing.  From every direction the call of "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!" is raised and in the Orient and in the Occident the teachings of God have struck wonder to the heart of every thinker.  Pamphlets and periodicals are being published and circulated in America, Europe and Africa.  A section of the press is engaged in praise and eulogy, and another section of the press is awakening the interest of the nations by exclaiming:  "This Movement is stupendous and of paramount importance."
page 131
Some people express wonder and astonishment; others complain bitterly on account of their intense prejudices.  One of the nations says:  "After the departure of his holiness Christ only a limited number of people were his disciples; notwithstanding this his fame became world-conquering and his song reached the sphere of ether."  But, the Blessed Perfection-May my life be a ransom to his believers!-on the eve of his ascension, hundreds and thousands were associating together under the shade of the flag of his majesty.  From this illustration you can draw the conclusion that a mighty resurrection will be witnessed in the not-far distant future.  One of the greatest apostles of his holiness the Spirit was the great Peter; but, notwithstanding this, before Christ's crucifixion he became agitated and was harassed with fear; while thousands of souls, singing, dancing and clapping their hands, have given up their lives and hastened toward the city of martyrdom, for the sake and in the path of the Most Great Name-May my identity be a sacrifice to his friends!
In short, the affairs of the Cause revolve around just such a centre of self-abnegation.  How self-evident it is that the believers of God must clothe themselves in these days with the attributes of self-sacrifice, consecrate their time to the teaching of the heedless ones, diffuse the sweet aroma of the teachings, re-enkindle the white flame and make apparent the splendour of the Merciful.
O ye friends of God!  Is it befitting that we rest for one moment after the departure of the Beauty of the Clement, or seek the organization of committees, or exhale one breath of comfort, or taste the honey of fleeting pleasure, or lay our heads on the cushions of repose, or pursue the luxury and affluence of the world of creation?  No!  I declare by God!  This is not the condition of loyalty nor the state of faithfulness and appreciation.
Therefore, O ye friends!  With heart and soul yearn for the service of the divine threshold and like unto the righteous ones become ye the guardians of the court of the merciful.  Servitude at the holy threshold means the spread of the fragrances, the explanation of signs and verses, thraldom at the hall of unity and attachment to the palace of mercifulness.  Consider with what severance, attraction and enkindlement the apostles of his holiness the Spirit-May my life be a ransom to him!-arose in the promulgation of the Word of God after his crucifixion.  We hope from the bestowal of the True One that we may likewise walk in the footsteps of those pure ones and hasten unhesitatingly and rejoicingly toward the arena of love and sacrifice.  This is the inexhaustible outpouring.  This is the grace of His Highness the forgiving Lord.
In these days the progress of the divine principles are impeded in some parts and retarded in others, and this has become conducive to the sorrow and grief of the Supreme Concourse, because the dwellers of the Kingdom of Abhá are expecting to see each one of us fulfilling the conditions of loyalty and for the sake of the love of the Most Great Name suffer every form of persecution.  A number of the merciful friends forsook their material tranquillity and composure and travelled from city to city, nay, rather, village to village, in order to diffuse the fragrances of God.  These souls, endowed with such pure spirits, became the objects of the commendation of the Supreme Concourse-May my life be a ransom to them!-for they became confirmed with this most exalted grace.  They spent their days amidst the greatest difficulties and hardships, and employed their time in the guidance of the negligent ones.
O ye friends!  This is not the time of rest and tranquillity!  This is not the season of silence and stillness.  The nightingale of the rose-garden of uprightness must display its wonderful melodies and trills.  The bird of guid-
page 132
ance must exhibit its eloquent speech.  The light and the heat are the concomitant results of the lamp.  The brilliancy of the stars must be everlasting.  The existence of the ocean connotes the waves.  The birds must soar toward the apex.  The pearls are inseparable from their lustre and sweet fragrance must qualify the blossoms of the rose-garden of knowledge.  It is hoped that through the favour of the living, Self-subsistent, we may become assisted in a befitting manner.
O ye believers of God!  Divine teachings are conducive to eternal life, the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity, the means of peace and conciliation, love and salvation, the basis of fellowship, uprightness and friendship in the world of creation and the instrument of unity and accord, solidarity and inter-dependence amongst the individuals of the body politic.  Consequently you must lay the foundation of this structure in this mortal world; thus you may confer upon it infinite and abundant life and become the source of the enlightenment of the world of existence.  It is incumbent upon you to consort with all the nations and people of the world with the utmost love, kindness and show affection, justice, assistance, consideration and courtesy to all the different communities and sects.  Become ye a remedy to every pain, a balsam of healing and recovery to every wound, to every weak one become ye a support and aid and succour every poor one.  Become ye to the fearful ones the impregnable cave of safety and to the agitated ones a sure asylum. ...  In this great cycle it is more acceptable and beloved to close one's eyes to all the limitations.  The friends may become the manifestors of the qualities of the Merciful and Clement and arise in the service of all humanity; nay, rather they must be most kind toward the animals; for verily His mercy hath encompassed all things.
O ye believers of God!  This is the time of self-abnegation and renunciation and the era of servitude and loyalty.  The utmost height of this servant is the station of Servitude to His Highness the Almighty.  If he becomes accepted at the threshold of servitude how glorious will be this most great gift.  Otherwise he will be deprived of the mercy of God.  Therefore the utmost hope and aspiration of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is to open his wings in this space, to run toward this field, obtain infinite exhilaration from this wine, be intoxicated with this cup and acquire the longing of heart and spirit.  Every other mention save this unchangeable, beloved name ('Abdu'l-Bahá) will become the cause of grief and sorrow and the source of the greatest regret and illimitable remorse.  I request from the friends of God that day and night they may supplicate and implore at the divine Kingdom so that my servitude might become accepted in the threshold of Bahá'u'lláh.
O ye believers of God!  If you wish the joy, happiness and the composure of the spirit and the peace of the conscience of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, strengthen the bonds of union and harmony amongst yourselves so that all of you may become the waves of one sea, the drops of one river, the flowers of one garden, the links of one cuirass, soaring in the atmosphere and breaking forth into one glad song.  This is the cause of my everlasting joy!  This is the motive of the repose of my mind and heart in the eternal world! ...  Today there is no greater service than union and accord amongst the believers.  This is the imperative need!  This is the happy consummation.  This is the most great attainment and the manifest bestowal for those who are sheltered beneath the shade of the Blessed Tree!
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb; copied from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, dated 9 January 1914.


VII:14, 23 November 1916
page 128
Latest word from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
In a letter dated 25 October 1916, to Dr 'Alí-Qulí Khán, recently received, Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb advises Khán that the beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá has addressed three Tablets to Khán, one in his own name, one to Khánum, his wife, and one to the American Bahá'ís, concerning him, his family and household, and his relatives.
The last of the three Tablets has just been received by Khán, through Mr Joseph H. Hannen, of Washington, D.C., in a letter from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, in which 'Abdu'l-Bahá addresses himself to the American believers as follows:
"To the Believers of God in America!-Upon them be greeting and praise!
"O ye believers of God!
"It is a long time that his honour 'Alí-Qulí Khán is engaged in the service of the Cause of God; therefore I love him.  Regarding the niece and the relatives of Khán who are in America, their aim is likewise good, and the believers of God must exercise toward them the utmost kindness.  For these souls are strangers, and hospitality must be shown towards strangers.  Should you hear contrary and conflicting stories concerning them, do not accept those stories.  I beg of God that that family-that is Khán, and the relatives of Khán-may be happy in that strange country, and that the believers may show them kindness and consideration.
"Man is worthy of honour and merits respect, especially a stranger.  The friends of God must become the cause of the consolation of every stranger-unless he is a corrupt and wicked person.  They must be the means of joy for every sorrowful one, a protective shelter for every fearful one, and a true friend and sympathizer to every friendless one.  This is the reward and compensation of every human being.  I hope you may become assisted therein.  Upon ye be greeting and praise.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VII:15, 12 December 1916
page 133
The social teachings of the Bahá'í Movement
A compilation by George O. Latimer
[More recent quotations are used when located.]
"Certain regulations are revealed which insure the welfare and well-being of all humanity.  Just as the rich man enjoys his rest and his pleasures surrounded by luxuries, the poor man must likewise have a home, be provided with sustenance, and not be in want. ...
"Until this is effected happiness is impossible.  All are equal in the estimation of God; their rights are one and there is no distinction for any soul; all are protected beneath the justice of God."-'Abdu'l-Bahá
The solution of our economic problems has long been considered a matter for the minds of philosophers and theoretical thinkers-a matter apart from religion.  But social and economic questions are as much a part of religion as are prayer and worship, for true religion is the cause of the advancement of civilization and progress in the world and "the nobility and glory of man consists in the fact that, amidst the beings, he is the dawning place of righteousness.  Can any greater blessing be imagined by man than the consciousness that by divine assistance the means of comfort, peace and prosperity of the human race are in his hands?  How noble and excellent is man if he only attain to that state for which he was designed.  And how mean and contemptible if he close his eyes to the public weal and spend his precious capacities on personal and selfish ends.  The greatest happiness lies in the happiness of others.  He who urges the matchless steed of endeavour on the race course of justice and civilization alone is capable of comprehending the wonderful signs of the natural and spiritual world."3
Civilization in its most general idea, is an improved condition of man resulting from his relation to the social order rather than the expression of his individual independence, and has a twofold aspect.  One, a natural and material civilization which serves the physical world and the other a divine and heavenly civilization which renders service to the world of morality.  One is founded by the philosophers and scientists of the world, the other is established by the Prophets of God.  Material civilization may again be subdivided into those affairs which have no direct relation to life, producing luxury, indolence and effeminacy, and those affairs which contribute toward the maintenance of livelihood and to the happiness, welfare and comfort of mankind.
"In the world of nature the greatest dominant note is the struggle for existence-the result of which is the survival of the fittest.  The law of the survival of the fittest is the origin of all difficulties.  It is the cause of war and strife, hatred and animosity, between human beings.  In the world of nature there is tyranny, egoism, aggression, overbearance, usurpation of the rights of others and other blameworthy attributes which are the defects of the animal world.
page 134
Therefore so long as the requirements of the natural world play paramount part among the children of men, success and prosperity are impossible; for the success and prosperity of the human world depend upon the qualities and virtues with which the reality of humanity is adorned while the exigencies of the natural world work against the realization of this object."  Thus material civilization alone does not insure the safety and progress of mankind, but brings into existence the greatest instruments for human fratricide and destruction of property, and animalistic propensities reach their height under its influence.
Divine civilization, on the other hand, assists man in acquiring heavenly virtues, thus freeing him from oppression, cruelty, and greed brought about by the exploitation of his fellow-man for his own gain.  "Divine civilization is a symposium of the perfections of the world of humanity.  Divine civilization is the improvement of the ethical life of a nation.  Divine civilization is the discovery of the reality of phenomena.  Divine civilization is the spiritual philosophy.  Divine civilization is the knowledge of God with rational and intellectual evidences."  "Consequently consider what a difference and distinction is there between the material civilization and the divine civilization!  The natural civilization prevents men from doing harm and wrong through force and punishment, and thus withholds them from committing crimes.  But the divine civilization so trains men that the human individuals avoid sins without having any fear from (material) punishment; and the very sin itself becomes unto them as the severest punishment.  And with the utmost zeal and fervour they will engage in acquiring human virtues, gaining that by which mankind will be uplifted and that which will enlighten the human world."
Thus divine civilization is in the same relation to material civilization as the light is to the lamp.  Natural civilization is the body which is in need of the spirit of heavenly guidance for its life and advancement.  Therefore the real and true civilization exists only when the material and spiritual combine to reach their highest development, A good man without any development along material lines does not represent true civilization; while on the other hand, the man who has developed only his material side, with no regard for the spiritual does not stand for real civilization.  Man must first understand that "the outward trappings of civilization, without inward moral advancement, may be likened unto confused dreams which cannot be interpreted; and sensual enjoyment, apart from spiritual perfection, is like unto the mirage which he that is athirst believes to be water." (M.F., p. 126)  The Bahá'í teaching awakens within him the realization of his duty to society by sowing such seeds of (divine) truth in his heart as these:
"The poor in your midst are My trust; guard ye My trust, and be not intent only on your own ease."4
"Ye are the trees of My garden; ye must give forth goodly and wondrous fruits, that ye yourselves and others may profit therefrom.  Thus it is incumbent on every one to engage in crafts and professions, for therein lies the secret of wealth, O men of understanding!  For results depend upon means, and the grace of God shall be all-sufficient unto you.  Trees that yield no fruit have been and will ever be for the fire."5
"Deeds reveal the station of the man."
"Tell the rich of the midnight sighing of the poor, lest heedlessness lead them into the path of destruction, and deprive them of the Tree of Wealth.  To give and to be generous are attributes of Mine; well is it with him that adorneth himself with My virtues."6
"Thy heart is My home; sanctify it for My descent.  Thy spirit is My
page 135
place of revelation; cleanse it for My manifestation."7
Thus the first and fundamental, and most difficult step toward the establishment of the new social synthesis, is a change of heart in man.
And to effect this change in conscience the Bahá'ís are today striving with all the power of their spiritual enthusiasm and wisdom.  The result is already a multitude of men and women in many lands, and of many races who have been reborn of the spirit and united by the fire of the love of God into a world-wide spiritual brotherhood.
But the Bahá'ís are also presenting to the world certain great principles of social reconstruction.  Part of these principles are general and fundamental; some are very specific-a clean cut programme of social laws for a new social order.
These principles include:  The oneness of all humanity, a universal language, universal peace, education, the House of Justice, specific laws.
The oneness of all humanity
The world is perishing through lack of the spiritual realization of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man.  Therefore Bahá'u'lláh addressed the world as follows:  "Ye are all leaves of one tree and the fruits of one branch."8  With the full realization of this one principle the shackles of capitalism, industrialism, and militarism will be broken down and mutual helpfulness and co-operation, the cornerstones of economic freedom, will be laid.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Today the world of humanity is in need of international unity and conciliation.  To establish these great fundamental principles a propelling power is needed.  It is self-evident that the unity of the human world and the Most Great Peace cannot be accomplished through material means.  They cannot be established through political power, for the political interests of nations are various and the policies of peoples are divergent and conflicting.  They cannot be founded through racial or patriotic power, for these are human powers, selfish and weak.  The very nature of racial differences and patriotic prejudices prevents the realization of this unity and agreement.  Therefore, it is evidenced that the promotion of the oneness of the kingdom of humanity, which is the essence of the teachings of all the Manifestations of God, is impossible except through the divine power and breaths of the Holy Spirit."9
There was a time in the history of the world when the family tie was the greatest unit.  Out of this grew the common interest of the community, and later as the circle widened the people became united as a nation.  Thus the keynote of the last century was nationalism; but now a new and higher ideal has been given to the world by Bahá'u'lláh-internationalism or humanitarianism.  "Let not man glory in this that he loveth his country, let him rather glory in this that he loveth his kind."10  All problems are world problems and a solution must needs be based upon this fundamental truth, the oneness of all mankind.
A universal language
For the establishment of this principle, a common auxiliary language is of paramount importance as it will facilitate the intercourse of all peoples and bring about an understanding and interchange of their ideas.  Upon this matter 'Abdu'l-Bahá said in Paris that "An international Congress should be formed, consisting of delegates from every nation in the world, Eastern as well as Western.  This Congress should form a language that could be acquired by all, and every country would thereby reap great benefit.
"Until such a language is in use, the world will continue to feel the vast need of this means of intercourse.  Difference
page 136
of speech is one of the most fruitful causes of dislike and distrust that exists between nations, which are kept apart by their inability to understand each other's language more than by any other reason.
"If everybody could speak one language, how much more easy would it be to serve humanity!"11
Universal peace
"Every century holds the solution of one predominating problem.  Although there may be many problems, yet one of the innumerable problems will loom large and become the most important of all.  In the past century, the most important question that occupied the mind of man was the establishment of political freedom and this aim was more or less broadcast.  But in this luminous century the greatest bestowal of the world of humanity is Universal Peace, which must be founded, so that the realm of creation may obtain composure, the East and the West, which include in their arms the five continents of the globe, may embrace each other, mankind may rest beneath the tent of oneness of the world of humanity, and the flag of universal peace may wave over all the regions.  As long as this sentiment has not become the light of the assemblages of the world of humanity, eternal prosperity will not be obtained and estrangement will not be changed into good-fellowship.  Like unto a spirit, this ideal must run and circulate through the veins and arteries of the body of the world."
Today the commercial and financial relations of the various countries of the world are so closely interwoven that the slightest rumour of war affects the markets and upsets the equilibrium of business everywhere.  This relationship is such, that when two nations go to war, the result is inevitable-both the victor and the vanquished are losers.  "The two combatants are like unto two ships which collide with each other.  One may sink to the bottom of the sea, but the other will also carry away its injuries and bruises."  In fact international ties are so delicate that not only the combatants suffer but all the nations are affected.  What a shock business received in the United States during the Boer War when England withdrew two hundred and fifty merchant ships from active trade to assist in military operations!  No one denies the devastating and paralyzing shock to the trade, commerce and industry of the entire world resulting from the present war, yet man, suffering from the results, does not attempt to remove the causes.  He is blinded by the illusion of racial, patriotic, political and religious prejudices, and by his greed for the control of the economic surplus-produced at the expense of the masses-even though be bears a burden of taxation for military purposes which deprives him of the means of proper livelihood.  Truly man today knows no peace for, "in reality war is continuous.  The moral effect of the expenditures of these colossal sums of money for military purposes is just as deteriorating as the actual war and its train of dreadful carnage and horrors."  "Such a financial drain ossifies the veins and muscles of the body politic and congeals the delicate sensibilities of the spirit."
"Today the true duty of a powerful king is to establish a universal peace; for verily it signifies the freedom of all the people of the world.  Some persons who are ignorant of the world of true humanity and its high ambitions for the general good, reckon such a glorious condition of life to be very difficult, nay rather impossible to compass.  But it is not so, far from it."
Alas, however, "the kings and rulers of the world are not yet ready to acknowledge that universal peace is conducive to the life of the world of humanity.  In a similar strain the nobles, the demagogues, and those in authority find their glory and reputation in naval and military preparedness.  Consequently it is impossible that 'economic contentment' be realized by the people of the world
page 137
save through the transforming power of faith.  For faith is the solvent for every problem."
For the establishment of universal peace, we need an International Board of Arbitration, composed of representatives from all the nations of the earth.  This Board would decide upon questions of boundaries, of national honour and property, the size of armaments for each government, and all questions of an international and justiciable12 nature, having the backing of the united powers to make its rulings effective.  Together they would furnish an international police force.  Most of the battleships should be turned into a mighty merchant marine.  "If so great a remedy would be applied to the sick body of the world, it would certainly be the means of continually and permanently healing its illness by the conciliation of universal moderation.  Reflect that, under such conditions of life, no Government would need to prepare and accumulate war materials, or would need to pay heed to the invention of new weapons of defence for the vexation and hurt of mankind.  On the contrary they would require only a few soldiers, as a means of assuring the safety of the state and punishing the wicked and rebellious and preventing the growth of civil sedition.  Not more than these few would be needed.  In the first place, therefore, the servants of God-that is to say, all the inhabitants of a state-would be freed from bearing the burden of the tremendous expense of an army; in the second, the many persons who now devote their lives to the invention of fresh instruments of war would no longer waste their time on such work, which but encourages ferocity and bloodthirstiness, and is repugnant to the universal ideal of humanity.  On the contrary, they would then employ their natural gifts in the cause of the general well-being and would contribute towards the peace and salvation of mankind.  All the rulers of the world will then be settled on peaceful thrones amid the glory of a perfect civilization, and all the nations and peoples will rest in the cradle of peace and comfort."
Education
"The most important of all matters in question, and that with which it is most specially necessary to deal effectively, is the promotion of education.  And no freedom or salvation could be imagined in the case of any nation which had not progressed in this greatest and most important point; just as the greatest cause of degradation and decadency of every nation is bigotry and ignorance."  "Another characteristic of progress consists in the earnest and sincere development of public education, in the teaching of all the useful sciences and in encouraging the people to adopt the modern inventions, in extending the spheres of arts and commerce, and endeavouring to induce them to adopt the methods by which the country may be enriched."
"If necessary, make this (education) even compulsory, for not until the veins and tendons of the nation stir with life, will any study and adoption of improvements be of any avail, because the nation is like unto the body, zeal and resolution are like unto the soul, so that the soulless body cannot move."
"In the scheme of human life, the teacher and his system of teaching plays the most important role, carrying with it the heaviest responsibilities and most subtle influence.  A teacher is like unto a gardener.  Just as a gardener sows the seeds and watches carefully over their sprouting, looks after their growth and progression-so also a teacher must watch over the education of the children and inculcate in their young lives the highest ideals of truth and justice."
Bahá'u'lláh writes (in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas):  "The first obligation of all the Bahá'ís is to strive by all means to bring up and instruct their children, male or female.  The girls are like the boys; there is no difference.  Ignorance in both
page 138
is censured, and in both stupidity is hateful.  In reality, looked at with the eye of truth, the education and instruction of the girls is more useful than that of the boys; for in time these girls will become mothers and will have children.  The first educator of the child, is she not the mother?  Children are like green and tender branches; as they are cultivated, they grow and increase.  If the cultivation is right, they grow straight, and if it is wrong they grow crookedly, and until the end of their lives they advance upon the same path.  It is thus proved that if girls without education or instruction become mothers, it is they who are the cause of this loss, the ignorance, the stupidity, the want of education of many children.  Strive then with all your souls to train and educate all children, above all your daughters.  On this point no excuses can be accepted."  "In the divine book of this cycle, instruction and education are not optional, they are obligatory.  He who educates his child or any other's children, it is as though he educated one of my children."
'Abdu'l-Bahá has declared:  "If women received the same educational advantages as those of men, the result would demonstrate the equality of capacity of both for scholarship.
"In some respects woman is superior to man.  She is more tender-hearted, more receptive, her intuition is more intense.
"It is not to be denied that in various directions woman at present is more backward than man, also that this temporary inferiority is due to the lack of educational opportunity.  In the necessity of life, woman is more instinct with power than man, for to her he owes his very existence.
"If the mother is educated then her children will be well taught.  When the mother is wise, then will the children be led into the path of wisdom.  If the mother be religious she will show her children how they should love God.  If the mother is moral she guides her little ones into the ways of uprightness.
"It is clear therefore that the future generation depends on the mothers of today.  Is not this a vital responsibility for the woman?  Does she not require every possible advantage to equip her for such a task?
"Therefore, surely, God is not pleased that so important an instrument as woman should suffer from want of training in order to attain the perfections desirable and necessary for her great life's work!  Divine Justice demands that the rights of both sexes should be equally respected since neither is superior to the other in the eyes of Heaven."13
"The publication of high thoughts is the dynamic power in the arteries of life; it is the very soul of the world.  Thoughts are a boundless sea, and the effects and varying conditions of existence are as the separate forms and individual limits of the waves; not until the sea boils up will the waves rise and scatter their pearls of knowledge on the shore of life."14
"It is most clear and manifest that the national affairs will never revolve around their proper axis until the whole people have received instruction, and public thought has been directed to a single end."
The House of Justice
"Two things are most urgently necessary to the political realm:
1.  The Legislative Power
2.  The Executive Power
The centre of the executive power is the government, and the legislative power lies in the hands of thoughtful and wise men.  On the other hand, if these strong pillars and firm foundations are not complete and comprehensive, how can it be supposed that there will be safety and salvation for the nation?  But as, in these latter days, such excellency is rare, the government and the whole body of the nation are in sore need of just and discerning directions.  Thus it is of the utmost importance to establish an assembly of learned men, who, being proficient in the different sciences and capable of dealing with all the present and future requirements will settle the questions in accordance with forbearance and firmness."
After pointing out the necessity for the establishment of "Councils" and "Deliberative Assemblies" as the solid basis of politics, 'Abdu'l-Bahá lays down certain rules that will make these organizations permanent.  "First, the
page 139
elected members must be righteous, God-fearing, high-minded, incorruptible.  Second, they must be fully cognizant, in every particular, of the laws of God, informed as to the highest principles of law, versed in the rules which govern the management of internal affairs and the conduct of foreign relations, skilled in the useful arts of civilization, and content with their lawful emoluments."15
As to the election of such men he says:  "In the present writer's view it would be preferable if the election of non-permanent members of consultative assemblies in sovereign states should be dependent on the will and choice of the people.  For elected representatives will on this account be somewhat inclined to exercise justice, lest their reputation suffer and they fall into disfavour with the public."16
These Councils are called Houses of Justice and every community, village, town, city, and nation will be under the control of one of these bodies.  From all the different National Houses of Justice members will be chosen to compose a Universal House of Justice, to have charge of the international problems.
"All the civic affairs and the legislation of material laws for the increasing needs of the enlightened humanity belong to the House of Justice.  This, the House of Justice, will be not only a body for the legislation of laws according to the spirit and requirement of the time, but a board of arbitration for the settlement of all disputes arising between peoples.  When the Universal House of Justice is organized the members will do their utmost for the realization of greater cordiality and comity17 amongst the nations.  The laws of Bahá'u'lláh are the unchangeable, organic laws of the Universal House of Justice.  They are the very foundation upon which the structure of additional legislation is built."  "As regards the places for the convening of such a general body, it will be decided by the members.  The Universal House of Justice has only the legislative function; the executive power belongs to the administrative department of government.  At first, National Houses of Justice will be established in every country, and they will elect in turn members to the Universal House of Justice.  Again I repeat, the House of Justice, whether National or Universal, has only legislative power, and not executive power.  For example, in Europe and America the Parliament or Congress enact laws, while the Government executes these laws.  The House of Justice cannot fulfil two functions at the same time-legislative and executive."
The chief concern of the government is the establishment of equal justice and equal opportunity amongst its citizens.  Therefore the members of the House of Justice must close the door to political pirates and their bribery, abolish their personal hatreds and crown themselves with wisdom, piety, truthfulness, capability, benevolence and zeal and such attributes that will prevent oppression, injustice and mismanagement of affairs.  As they are to be under the inspiration and protection of God, they must hearken to his call.
"Oh, friends of God, be living examples of justice!  So that by the Mercy of God, the world may see in your actions that you manifest the attributes of justice and mercy.
"Justice is not limited, it is a universal quality.  Its operation must be carried out in all classes, from the highest to the lowest.  Justice must be sacred, and the rights of all the people must be considered.  Desire for others only that which you desire for yourselves.  Then shall we rejoice in the Sun of Justice, which shines from the Horizon of God.
"Each man has been placed in a post of honour, which he must not desert.  A humble workman who commits an injustice is as much to blame as a renowned tyrant.  Thus we all have our choice between justice and injustice.
"I hope that each one of you will become just, and direct your thoughts towards the unity of mankind; that you will never harm your neighbours nor speak ill of any one; that you will respect the rights
page 145
of all men, and be more concerned for the interests of others than for your own."18
Specific laws
The spiritual principle in the establishment of the Bahá'í regulations and economic laws is the exaltation of work.  "It is incumbent upon each one of you to engage in some occupation-such as a craft, a trade or the like.  We have exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of worship of the one true God. ...  Waste not your hours in idleness and sloth, but occupy yourselves with what will profit you and others. ...  The most despised of men in the sight of God are they who sit and beg."19
"When anyone occupieth himself in a craft or trade, such occupation itself is regarded in the estimation of God as an act of worship; ...."20
Thus the acquisition of wealth is not a sin, provided it is not accumulated at the expense and deprivation of another, for, "riches earned by personal effort with divine assistance, in various trades, agriculture and the arts, and rightly administered, are justly deserving of praise, forasmuch as if a wise and discerning man acquires them, they become a ready means of benefit to the state."  Poverty must be eliminated and the surplus wealth devoted to the establishment of schools and colleges, in the propagation of science and for the public benefit, but man is warned by Bahá'u'lláh:  "Busy not thyself with this world, for with fire We test the gold, and with gold We test Our servants."21
The prevention of monopoly in the control of wealth is one of the most vital questions of social philosophy and the distribution of the vast fortunes has been theorized upon from many angles.  The method presented by Bahá'u'lláh is both direct and simple.  It is based on the distribution of estates into the following seven divisions:
1.  Children
2.  Husband or wife
3.  Fathers
4.  Mothers
5.  Brothers
6.  Sisters
7.  Teachers
If anyone dies without heirs, the House of Justice has the right to the legacy in order to spend it for the good of the commonwealth.
If one dies without any heirs excepting children, two-thirds goes to them and one-third to the House of Justice.  If there is no one to inherit the property and there are other relatives such as nephews or nieces, two-thirds goes to them; otherwise the two-thirds will go to the uncles and aunts (fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters) and after them to their sons and daughters; and the other one-third to the House of Justice.  If one dies while his father is still alive, and he has children, the children will inherit what was allotted to their father.  In the case of children who are under years or incapable of managing their affairs, their legacy should be put into the hands of a trustee or the "House of Partnership" to be invested until their maturity, the trustee receiving part of the acquired profits as his compensation, after deducting the portion for God's work, debts of the deceased if any, and funeral expenses-with honour and deference.
Thus a very clear method is given for preventing of the handing down of vast fortunes in one family from generation to generation, the evils of which are very manifest, and the results of which will be the abolition of monopoly and more equal distribution.  Attention may be called to the fact that teachers, always underpaid, are especially provided for in this arrangement.
Closely allied to this question is the
page 146
problem of the maintenance of the commonwealth, for the House of Justice would not receive sufficient revenue from the inheritance tax alone to carry on the duties and responsibilities of the state.  In the reorganization of affairs 'Abdu'l-Bahá begins with the land, He says:  "The question of economics must commence with the farmer and then be extended to the other classes inasmuch as the number of farmers is greater than all other classes, many many times greater.  Therefore, it is fitting that the economic problem be first solved with the farmer, for the farmer is the first active agent in the body politic.  In brief, from among the wise men in every village a board should be organized and the affairs of that village should be under the control of that board."
"... Likewise a general storehouse should be founded with the appointment of a secretary.  At the time of the harvest, with the approval of the members of that board, a determined percentage of the entire harvest should be appropriated for the storehouse.
"The storehouse is to have seven revenues:  Tithes, taxes on animals, wealth without inheritors, all things found whose owners cannot be discovered, a third of all treasures (money) found in the earth, a third of the mines, and voluntary contributions.
"On the other hand, there are seven expenditures:
1.	General running expenses of the institution-salaries etc., and the administration of public safety, including the department of hygiene.
2.	Tithes to the general government (State).
3.	Taxes on animals for the State.
4.	Support of an orphanage.
5.	Support of cripples and the incurable.
6.	Support of educational institutions.
7.	Supplying any deficiency for the expenses of the poor.
"The first revenue is the tithe.  For example, if the income of a farmer is five hundred dollars and his necessary expenses are five hundred dollars, no tithes will be collected from him.  Another's expenses being five hundred and his income one thousand dollars, one tenth will be taken from him, for he hath more than his needs; if he giveth one tenth his livelihood will not be disturbed."22
And so on in an increasing ratio according to the difference between the income and necessary expenditure, for man will have everything that he needs for his welfare and a large surplus besides.  On the other hand, a person, owing to illness, poor crops and through no fault of his own, may be unable to earn a sufficient income to meet his necessary expenses for the year, then what he lacks for the necessary maintenance of himself and family will be supplied by the general storehouse.  After certain amounts have been set aside for each of these seven expenditures, then any surplus will be transferred to the general treasury of the nation for general expenses.
The result of this (system) will be that each individual member of the body politic will live most comfortably and happily under obligation to no one.  Nevertheless, there will be preservation of degree because in the world of humanity there must needs be degrees.  The body politic may well be likened to an army.  In this army there must be a general, there must be a sergeant, there must be a marshal, there must be the infantry; but all must enjoy the greatest comfort and welfare."23
"Likewise, a city is in need of a mayor, judge, merchants, bankers, tradesmen and farmers.  Undoubtedly these degrees should be
page 147
preserved, otherwise the public order will be disturbed."24
Another specific law is the prohibition of slavery.  Up to the present time the governments have been engaged with the establishment of political freedom and the liberation of the chattel slave, but now a new and greater problem confronts the world, industrial emancipation.  When in San Francisco in 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to the American people:
"Between 1860 and 1865 you did a wonderful thing; you knocked the shackles from chattel slavery; but today you must do a much more wonderful thing:  you must destroy industrial slavery."
Under our present system the public is safeguarded through the force of laws based upon retaliation and correction, generally inadequate, but when the divine civilization is established man will be so trained and enlightened that he will shun crimes and evil deeds without any fear of material punishment.  He will consider the very crime itself to be the greatest retribution and punishment.  Until man is advanced to this condition, inasmuch as crime is due chiefly to ignorance, it will be the duty of the community to execute penal laws through its right of defence and self-protection, not through the spirit of revenge which breeds hatred and animosity.  It is therefore incumbent upon man to be a dutiful, law abiding citizen of his country.
"The solution of economic questions, for instance, will not be accomplished by array of labour against capital and capital against labour in strife and conflict, but by the voluntary attitude of sacrifice on both sides.  Then a real and lasting justness of conditions will be brought about.  If a capitalist is forced to give up a portion of his income and possessions there will be no love in his heart, no permanent benefit in his action.  But if it be given in the spirit of God, everything will be accomplished.  As it is now the forces of labour strike and the capitalists retaliate.  If the latter should voluntarily add to the scale of wages, love is evident and the greatest good results.  Briefly:  among the Bahá'ís there are no extortionate, mercenary and unjust practices, no rebellious demands, no revolutionary uprisings against existing governments."
The question of wages, which is the cause of nearly all industrial warfare at the present time, is so solved by 'Abdu'l-Bahá that:  "It will not be possible in the future for men to amass great fortunes by the labour of others.  The rich will willingly divide.  They will come to this gradually, naturally, by their own volition.  It will never be accomplished by war and bloodshed.  The ruling power or government cannot treat the rich unjustly.  To force them to divide their wealth would be unjust.  In the future, proportionately about three-quarters of the profits will go to the workmen and one-quarter to the owner."
The evolution of the body politic cannot take place overnight but just as the new life of the physical world requires the spring winds, the April showers and the heat of the sun in order to grow and develop, so "in like manner, when the sincere purposes and the justice of the sovereign, the knowledge and perfect political efficiency of the ministers of state and the ambition and enthusiasm of the people are all realized at the same time, then indeed, the millennium of progress and human perfection, the consummation of the glory and the prosperity of state and nation will be accomplished."
Work and worship go hand in hand and the Bahá'í Temple of worship, known as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, an Arabic expression meaning the "Dawning Point of Mention (of God)", holds an unique
page 148
position, for it combines both the material and the spiritual.  "The arrangement of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is such that it will exert the greatest influence upon the civilized world on account of its many accessories.  Among them are the following:  School for Orphans, College for Higher Scientific Education, Hospital, Home for the Cripples, and Hospice.  When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, with its accessories, is founded in the world, aside from the religious and spiritual influence, it will have a tremendous effect upon civilization."  The doors of these institutions will be open to all nations and religions.
'Abdu'l-Bahá recognizes the fact that in order to establish a better economic and social condition certain laws and regulations are necessary for the best welfare of humanity, but he goes on to say:  "While thousands are considering these questions, we have more essential purposes.  The fundamentals of the whole economic condition are divine in nature and are associated with the world of the heart and spirit.  This is fully explained in the Bahá'í teaching, and without knowledge of its principles no improvement in the economic state can be realized.  The Bahá'ís will bring about this improvement and betterment but not through sedition and appeal to physical force-not through warfare, but welfare.25  Hearts must be so cemented together, love must become so dominant that the rich shall most willingly extend assistance to the poor and take steps to establish these economic adjustments permanently. ...
"Strive, therefore, to create love in the hearts in order that they may become glowing and radiant.  When that love is shining, it will permeate other hearts even as this electric light illumines its surroundings.  When the love of God is established, everything else will be realized.  This is the true foundation of all economics.  Reflect upon it.  Endeavour to become the cause of the attraction of souls rather than to enforce minds.  Manifest true economics to the people.  Show what love is, what kindness is, what true severance is and generosity."26
"The disease which afflicts the body politic is lack of love and absence of altruism.  In the hearts of men no real love is found, and the condition is such that, unless their susceptibilities are quickened by some power so that unity, love and accord may develop within them, there can be no healing, no agreement among mankind.  Love and unity are the needs of the body politic today.  Without these there can be no progress or prosperity attained.  Therefore, the friends of God must adhere to the power which will create this love and unity in the hearts of the sons of men.  Science cannot cure the illness of the body politic.  Science cannot create amity and fellowship in human hearts.  Neither can patriotism nor racial allegiance effect a remedy.  It must be accomplished solely through the divine bounties and spiritual bestowals which have descended from God in this day for that purpose."27
In conclusion since the Bahá'í Movement is essentially spiritual, attention is called to the significant fact that "these precepts were given more than half a century ago-at that moment no one spoke of universal peace-nor of any of these principles, but Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed them to all the sovereigns of the world. ...  They are the spirit of this age, the light of this age; they are the well-being of this age."  The Bahá'í Movement has breathed a new spirit into the dead body of the world of humanity and a new universal and divine consciousness has been presented to mankind for investigation.


VII:15, 12 December 1916
page 140
The teaching campaign-selections from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Extract from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 24 February 1914.
As this Bahá'í Cause is in the nascent stage and its basic doctrines are universal, uniformity of rules and forms are not only impossible but undesirable.
A Bahá'í teacher is a Constructionist.  He avails himself of the unimpaired materials in the past religions, reinforces the faith of the inquirer by simply holding before his path a greater and brighter light.
He has come not to destroy but to build.  The inquirer will discard the superannuated and unnecessary rituals of his former religion along the road of his search.
The teacher holds aloft the flambeau of truth, and little by little the darkness vanishes.  The teacher before attempting to take hold of the search light of Truth must learn two lessons:  First, the art of manipulation, and second, the inflexibility of the will.
Just as the searchlight revolves around its axis on its high tower, sending forth into dark space a continuous stream of white, piercing light, so also the teacher must learn how to manipulate the searchlight of Truth-so as to scatter not only the forces of spiritual darkness, but mental, intellectual, social, physical, and economic darkness as well.
A teacher is a physician.  A physician does not give the same kind of medicine
page 141
to every patient.  What is good for one may cause the death of another.  What alleviates one kind of sickness may aggravate the other.
The pharmacopoeia of a Bahá'í teacher must be well supplied.  If he sticks to one kind of prescription I do not say he shall fail, but he will not accomplish universal results.
He must be fairly well informed with the Scriptures, the history of the Cause, and its principles, the underlying spirit of the age, and the longings of the hearts for vaster and more spacious fields of noble labour and elevating thoughts.
There is an Oriental saying: "There are as many roads to God as the number of His creatures!"
A teacher must know these roads and strive to put himself in sympathetic touch with the weary pilgrims who are struggling along each road, and little by little teach them that what they call a road is not a road but an unbeaten hard trail leading to jungles and deserts and precipices.  When they are prepared, he might then cry at the top of his voice:  "O men!  The Highway of the Lord of Hosts hath appeared.  The Broad Boulevard of the Kingdom of God is paved.  Lo! Behold!"
There are many people who have left their trails and are walking along this Celestial Path.
Do you not see them?  Are you not learning by their example?  Open your eyes!  Look!  Look!  How many companies of people composed of ever so many nationalities are thronging the Golden Way of the Kingdom!
They are marching on and on, and with every step they take they come nearer to the goal.  Their path is strewn with the lilies of love, and the hyacinths of affection.  In their white hands are the harps and lyres of divine music, and on their lips the songs of thanksgiving and anthems of glorification.  Listen!  Listen!  Now they are singing in soft, harmonious murmur and anon raise their voices, flushed and inspired with rejoicing and happiness.  Is it not better for thee, my brother, my sister, to leave thine own narrow trail over which is grown thorns of dogmas and under-brushes of creed and walk on this broad, brilliantly lighted Path of the Kingdom?  Here thou wilt enjoy the companionship of spiritually minded men and women who have given up everything to serve their God and the world of humanity.  This golden hour is slipping by; this divine opportunity is passing away.  Avail thyself of it!


VII:15, 12 December 1916
page 141
Necessity of education-training of the children
[Quotations readily available elsewhere have been omitted.]
page 142
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá given in Stuttgart, Germany, 28 April 1913
"Among the children many blessed souls will arise, if they be trained according to the Bahá'í Teaching.
"If a plant is carefully nurtured by a gardener, it will become good and produce better fruit.  These children must be given a good training from their earliest childhood.  They must be given a systematic training which will further their development, in order that they may receive greater insight, so that their spiritual receptivity be broadened.  Beginning in childhood they must receive instruction.  They cannot be taught through books.  Many elementary sciences must be made clear to them in the nursery; they must learn them in play, in amusement.
"Most ideas must be taught them through speech, not by book-learning.  One child must question the other concerning those things and the other child must give the answer.  In this way they will make great progress.  For example, mathematical problems must also be taught in the form of questions and answers.  One of the children asks a question and the other must give the answer.  Later the children will of their own accord speak with each other concerning these same subjects.  The children who are at the head of their class must receive premiums.  They must be encouraged, and when one of them shows good advancement, for their further development they must be praised and encouraged therein.
"Even so in God-like affairs.  Verbal questions must be asked and the answers must be given verbally.  They must discuss (these affairs) with each other in this manner."
Excerpt from the Notes of Mrs Sara Herron, taken at 'Akká in 1900
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Bahá'u'lláh said the children are of two kinds-the mature and the immature.  The mature are the children of believers, and the immature of the unbelievers.  Some attain to the highest station because they are so well prepared that they can enter the highest station without earthly preparation.  When we see a child wise beyond his years, it is a sign of this preparation, so we cannot question the justice of this.  All are created in the same station by the Justice of God, but if some of these have become prophets and some teachers, this is from the favours and bounty of God."
From the Notes of Miss E. J. Rosenberg, London, at Haifa, February and March, 1901
"We must be guided entirely by the intelligence and development of the child, as to how soon we should begin to teach it.
"A woman reaches her maturity at the age of twenty, and must then certainly receive the full teaching.
"Many a child of ten is sufficiently developed and advanced to receive some teaching, and some are ready for it at the age of eight or nine.
"The great thing that is necessary to teach children is to be characterized with
page 143
the attributes of God, and to be good.  Their hearts and minds must be prepared to receive the truth as soon as they are old enough to be taught anything-but children should not be taught facts and details which they may not speak of openly to their fellows and companions.
"But they must on no account allow their children to drink wine or alcoholic drinks.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke of the Druses who never drank wine or smoked, and in consequence of this, many diseases were quite unknown to them."
Excerpt from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 June 1914
"Think of God, and let thy thought be of God, and let thy brother be trained according to the highest moral standard.  In the tenderest years of their youth the pure hearts of boys and girls must be illumined with the light of love of God.  Then when they grow up, most astonishing results will be produced, because the maps of their whole lives would be drawn with the hand of the spiritual Educator.  A Bahá'í child must be trained according to the moral precepts of Bahá'u'lláh, he must be taught daily of the love of God:  the history of the Movement must be read to him, the love of humanity must be inculcated into every fibre of his being and the universal principles be explained to him in as easy a manner as possible to be devised.  Then the power of great faith will take possession of his heart.  But if these supreme precautions are not taken in the earliest stages of the child's growth, it will be most difficult to curb later on his growing manifold appetites.  For then he will live according to the requirements of the world of nature and uncontrolled self.  Once the lower and sensual habits of nature take hold of him, it will be very hard to reform him by any human agencies.  Hence children must be brought under the control of the love of God and spiritual influence from their earliest youth.  The lower appetites of nature are like kings over men, one must defeat their forces, otherwise he will be defeated by them."
Excerpt from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 September 1913
As though preordained, the subject of his ('Abdu'l-Bahá's) informal talk was on education, and the duty of the mothers toward their children, a most appropriate message to go out to the world of motherhood:
"The fathers, and especially the mothers, must always think how they can best educate their children, not how to fondle and embrace them and thus spoil them.  By every means at their disposal they must inculcate into their growing bodies, souls, minds and spirits, the principles of sincerity, love, trustfulness, obedience, true democracy, and kindness toward all the races, thus hereafter the world of civilization may flow in one mighty current and the children of the next generation may make secure the foundations of human solidarity and goodwill.  From the tenderest childhood the children must be taught by their mothers the love of God and the love of humanity-not the love of the humanity of Asia, or the humanity of Europe, or the humanity of America, but the humanity of humankind.
"There are some mothers who have a strange, inexplicable love for their children.  One may call it the inversion of love, or, as we call it in Persia, 'Bearish love'.  This kind of love does more injury to the child than good.  When I was in 'Akká, during the life of the Blessed Perfection, he entrusted the son of one of the believers to a German carpenter.  After a month, his mother went to Bahá'u'lláh and lamented and bemoaned, saying:  'I want my son, because he is unhappy with this carpenter, for he curses his religion.' Bahá'u'lláh told her, 'Go to Áqá (the Master) and act according to whatever he
page 144
says.'  She came to me, and after hearing her side of the story I said to her:  'The Germans never curse any one; they are not accustomed to it.'  She went away, and after another month she came again to Bahá'u'lláh with another complaint, that this carpenter had forced her son to carry on his back a load of wheat.  Again I told her that if he had done so it was for discipline.  I satisfied her, but she was murmuring inwardly.  A few months rolled by and she returned with another set of complaints, frankly confessing that she did not want her son to be away from her, that he was the apple of her eye.
"Realizing how selfish her love was for her son, I told her at last that I would not take him away, that he must stay with the carpenter for eight years until his apprenticeship was over.  Well, she yielded to the inexorable situation.  After eight years of study he left his master, and his mother was very proud of him, everywhere praising his industry because his work was demanded on every hand.  In short, the mothers must not think of themselves, but of the progress of their children, because upon the children of today-whether boys or girls-depends the moulding of the civilization of tomorrow."
Excerpt from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 October 1914
"The children must receive divine and material education at the same time, and be protected from temptations and vices.  How wonderful will it be if the teachers are faithful, attracted and assured, educated and refined Bahá'ís, well-grounded in the science of pedagogy and familiar with child psychology; thus they may train the children with the fragrances of God.  In the scheme of human life the teacher and his system of teaching plays the most important role, carrying with it the heaviest responsibilities and most subtle influence.  A teacher is like unto a gardener.  Just as a gardener sows the seeds and watches carefully over their sprouting, looks after their growth and progression-so also a teacher must watch over the education of the children and inculcate in their young lives the highest ideals of truth and justice."
Excerpt from Diary Letter of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 November 1913
'Abdu'l-Bahá is discussing the necessity of banishing superstitions and explaining how the apparent "lethargy" in the Muslim world is not because the religion of the Arabian prophet was or is false, but it is because the Muslims have forgotten the pure democratic principles of the first age of Islám, and have taken hold of spurious ceremonies and false premises, and are spending their time in the study of dead theology and worthless metaphysics.  It is written in the Qur'án:  "There is no virtue in this, whether thou mayest turn thy face (at the time of prayer) toward the East or the West; but the virtue lies in this, that thou mayest adorn thyself with righteousness and practise philanthropy."  Take the example of the theological students of the University of Al-Azhar.28  They spend all their lives in that institution with no visible results.  When a young man enters a western college he comes out after a few years, either an engineer, or an electrician, architect, physician, or any of the many technical and practical professions.  But those students of Al-Azhar waste their wonderful lives and are a heavy burden on the shoulders of the state.  This is a crime, an unpardonable crime.  Then, turning to a Bahá'í who has two of his children in a French school, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"Give to your children a manual profession, something whereby they may be able to support themselves and others.  Let polite literature take care of itself.  Teach them a technical art or profession."


VII:16, 31 December 1916
page 149
The Divine Art of Living29
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts readily available elsewhere have been omitted]
CHAPTER I
"Welcome to the Kingdom of God"
Grace and welcome unto you.  I wish you not the temporal strength of the passing body, but the eternal strength of the immortal soul.  Some (persons) can be compared unto prepared lamps, only waiting the Spirit's breath to illumine them; while others are still unprepared.  There is some wood that is inflamed at once; there is a damp, wet wood that has to be warmed before the flame can penetrate the heart.  Again there is wood as hard as stone and verily, in vain the heat and flame caress it.  Some earth must be tilled before the seed can be planted.  Some plants absorb water in the earth and others remain dry.  Open your hearts that they may be filled; open your souls that the divine light may shine therein.  Strive, strive to receive the Spirit of Truth.  Truth awaits your call.
Some (persons) with serious ills go
page 150
from celebrated doctor to celebrated doctor, but they all fail to cure for the power is with the Divine.  So it is with your soul.  Your heart is pure and the Spirit can enter therein.  Cut yourself from the world.  Pray in the Greatest Name, then the breeze of truth, the flood of light will enter your searching soul.  There is nothing else to be sought on earth or in the universe.
Yes, remain here.  Your room will have no worldly comforts, but will be filled with the love of God.  During a terrible storm Christ wandered on the mountain seeking shelter; a den of wild beasts was all he found and that was the beloved Son of God.  All the world was his, but no worldly riches.
The Spirit will come to you with increased force, for your being must become as a temple in which the truth of God can dwell.
Welcome to the Kingdom of God.  Even if every moment you thanked God a thousand times for the grace of being born in this, the most marvellous century and for the great favour of being allowed to reach the Promised Land, even that would not be sufficient thanks.
Your faith comes like rain; the first drops are far between, but soon it will pour in torrents.  Your faith is also like a seed that will bear its fruit.  In a tree we judge of its life and vigour by the way it grows; so it is with man.  The knowledge of God rises in the heart like the sun; it mounts, mounts, always casting an immortal light.
You must be reborn by the Spirit.  A child in the matrix has eyes and ears but only learns their use when it is born.  A man cannot comprehend the Spirit before he has put aside earthly things.
All the centuries are the bringing forth of the twentieth.  The deepest wish of many great men was to live in the latter day. ...  In past times people esteemed themselves blessed to live in the same time as one of the saints.  How much greater is your privilege!  To the people then a candle was given, while to you the sun.
The Spirit resembles a rivulet when the earth fills the soul.  Put away the terrestrial and the mighty torrent of living water will rush through your freed body.
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Miss ... 14-19 October 1900, on the occasion of her visit to 'Akká.
__________
Although the life of the creature is called life, in reality, compared to the life of the children (of the Kingdom) it is not life; on the contrary it is death.
For instance, a mineral substance contains life, but this life compared to the life of the vegetable is death; in like manner the life of the vegetable compared to the life of an animal is death; in like manner the life of human beings compared to the life of the children of the Kingdom is death.  As his majesty Christ said:  "Let the dead bury their dead, because he who is born of the flesh is flesh and he who is born of the spirit is spirit."
Therefore, it is evident that life (in its true sense) is the life of the spirit and that life is the love of God, divine inspiration, spiritual joys and glad tidings of God.  Seek, O servant of God, this life until day and night you remain in limitless joy.
An early Tablet
__________
The life of man will at last end in this world.  We must all take out of this life some fruit.  The tree of one's existence must bear some fruit.  If a tree has no fruit you must cut it down and burn it; it would be useless for other purposes.
Question:  "'Abdu'l-Bahá, what is the fruit of the human tree?"
"It is the love of God; it is the love of humankind; it is to wish good for all the people of the earth; it is service to humanity; it is truthfulness and honesty; it is virtues and good morals; it is devo-
page 151
tion to God; it is the education of souls; such are the fruits of the human tree.  Otherwise it is only wood-nothing else."
Kinney-Beebe-Thompson:  Notes of the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, June-July 1909.
__________
The heart must of necessity be spiritual.  A tree must be fruitful; it may be very tall, very verdant, but yield no fruits.  The fruits of the tree of the human life are the love of God, magnetic, spiritual susceptibilities, heavenly illumination, the knowledge of God; praiseworthy attributes, good morals and conduct.  A person whose tree of life produces such fruits is a Bahá'í; otherwise he is of the earth earthy, self-occupied, and following the dictates of his own desires, and is man only by name.  As his holiness Christ says:  "Ye shall know the tree by its fruits."
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 1 June 1914.
__________
If the fruit of the existence of man is not servitude at the threshold of the Almighty I declare by the living, self-subsistent God that life is death, existence is non-existence, non-being is better than being, pleasure is pain, joy is sorrow, immortality is mortality.  In this court we must be humble and meek, active and progressive, wide-awake and thoughtful, true and sincere, noble and good, straightforward and zealous.  This is the outcome of life!  This is the result of ceaseless endeavour!  This is the prize to be won!  This is the illumination of the world of humanity!  This is the eternal life!  This is the sublimity of human nature.  This is the heavenly glory!  This is the radiant crown of the Kingdom of Abhá!
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 June 1914.
__________
The world is mortal.  In one instant it will pass away; but the principle of ease and tranquillity is the soul which is in the eternal world.  Real life is the life of the spirit, while the body has to die when its light has come to an end.  Therefore, of what importance is it?
Extract from Tablet to Mrs Dealey, revealed 14 July 1911.
__________
Know thou, verily; God hath preferred the insight to the sight; because the sight sees the material things, while the insight apprehends the spiritual.  The former witnesses the earthly world, while the latter sees the world of the Kingdom.  The former's judgement is temporary, while the latter's vision is everlasting.
Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 604-5.
__________
It was my aim that after thy return to ... thou shouldst hoist the ensign of the great guidance, that like the morning star thou shouldst glisten with the light of the great bestowal and that thou shouldst shout so as to awaken them that are asleep and set aglow all who are in lethargy.  This is work!
Otherwise the foundation of man is entirely shaky and without immortality.  The numbered days of life will come to an end, the bright days will at last become cloudy and at the last breath man,
page 152
with limitless regrets, will hasten to the other world.
It is my aim that thou mayst advance to such an extent in the perfections in the realm of man, in the divine manifestations and the susceptibilities of the conscience as to become an angel of heaven and a manifestation of the favours of the Merciful.
Extract from Tablet to an American believer; translated 17 July 1910.
__________
O my servants!  The Ancient Beauty30 commands:  Hasten to the shadow of immortality, nearness and mercy from the shadow of desire, remoteness and heedlessness.  Be ye resigned like unto the earth, so that the fragrant, sacred, multi-coloured myrtles of my knowledge may grow in the soil of existence.  Be ye ablaze like unto fire, so that ye may consume thick veils and quicken and immortalize the cold and veiled bodies through the heat of divine love.  Be ye pure like unto air so that ye may enter the sacred abode of my friendship.
O servants!  If ye be informed of the wonders of my generosity and grace which I have deposited in yourselves ye will certainly be cut from all directions and seeking to know your own selves, which is identical with knowing myself, will find yourselves independent of all save me and will see the ocean of my providence and the deeps of my beneficence in yourselves, with your outward and inward eye, as manifest and clear as the sun shining from the name of Abhá.31  Do not waste this most wonderful, most holy station, through the promptings of fancy and desire and through the falsehoods of superstition and blindness.  Ye are like unto a bird which, with all joy and fragrance soars with the utmost security in the cheerful air of the Praised One.  Then in the (imaginary) hope of grains it inclines toward the mud and water of the earth and, with all eagerness, besmears itself with dust and mire.  Then, when it attempts to re-ascend it finds itself unable and a captive, forasmuch as wings besmeared with water and clay are not capable of flight.  At that time that bird of the exalted heaven finds itself a dweller in the mortal earth!
Now, O servants, do not besmear your wings with the mire of heedlessness and imagination and the earth of animosity and rancour so that ye be deprived and prevented from soaring in the sacred heaven of knowledge.
O servants!  If ye are possessed of sight, enter the city of seeing.  If ye are the people of hearing, step into the land of hearing.  And if ye are the possessors of hearts, choose an abode in the fortress of the assured ones so that in these dark days ye may not be veiled from witnessing the lights of the beauty of Abhá. ...
O servants!  Inscribe the exhortations of the Spirit with the pen of resignation and the ink of submission and assurance upon the tablet of your heart and turn in every instant lest ye may neglect a single letter thereof, and advance toward the True One with all exertion, turning away from all else save him.  For this is the root of the leaf of command grown upon the divine tree.
This world is a show without reality and is a non-existence adorned in the form of existence.  Do not attach your hearts thereto.  Do not sever yourselves from your Creator and be not of those who are heedless.
Truly I say, the world is like unto a mirage which has the shadow of water.  Those who are athirst make abundant efforts in its search but when reaching it remain deprived and portionless.  Or, it is like unto the image of a loved one which is destitute of life and soul; when the lover reaches it he finds it of no worth and value and finds no gain save great pain and despondency.
Words of Bahá'u'lláh, in a Tablet called 'Tablet of Ahmad'.
page 153
__________
Asked, "What is true greatness in man?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:
"His spiritual attributes.  No one can destroy his spiritual qualities; they are from God."
Ten Days in the Light of 'Akká, p. 13.
page 154
__________
Praise be to God that his holiness Bahá'u'lláh, has spread before us the heavenly table upon which one finds every kind of food.  There is the food of faith and assurance; the sustenance of divine virtues; the bread of the love of God; the meat of the glad-tidings of the kingdom of Abhá; the victuals of severance and detachment; the viands of enkindlement and attraction; the nutriment of sanctity and holiness; the dish of attraction with the fragrances of God; the sustenance of the breaths of the Holy Spirit; the food of eternal life; the nourishment of teaching the cause of God and promulgating the religion of God.  In short, one finds on this divine table all kinds of spiritual food which constitutes the real Supper of the Lord.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 October 1914.
__________
The world and its objects are transitory.  Phenomena undergo change and transformation but God and his servants remain unalterable and not subject to transmutation.  We must attach our hearts to Him if we desire to be eternally happy.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 April 1914.
__________
A material man lets himself be worried and harassed by little things but a spiritual man is always calm and serene under all circumstances.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 10 July 1914.
__________
If a person is confirmed in the accomplishment of the services of the Kingdom, his worldly conditions are of secondary importance.  The greatest bestowal that it is possible for a soul to attain in this world is this:  that he may spend his life, his forces, his possessions, his body, his heart and his spirit in the path of the service of the Blessed (Glory of God) and that towards the last of his life he may drink the cup of martyrdom.  This is indeed the most blessed state, the loftiest pinnacle of perfection!
Is there a greater or more harrowing regret in the world than to spend one's physical energies in the awful road of lust, sinful passions, inordinate desires and the frivolities of the age!  No!  I declare by God!  O how pitiful to watch the last flicker of hope dying out of such a life!  Because when the last curtain falls on such a dissipated life he finds to his utter remorse his nerves racked, his resources drained, his fortune wrecked, his hopes unfulfilled, his opportunities lost, his visions unaccomplished, his energies wasted and the light of his spirit extinguished!  What were the results of these deeds?  What was the sum total of these thoughts?  What was the outcome of this sawing of wild oats?  Where is the man with his youthful ambitions?  In what heap of mud and water did he throw the brilliant gems of his ideals?  What has he done with his God-given intelligence?  He has indeed lived a fruitless life, surrounded himself with the suggestions of passions and the gratification of selfish appetites.  His life is brought to a tragic close, enveloped with regrets, remorse!  Verily this is the most evident loss!
But, on the other hand, how glorious is the life of a person when toward the last days of his earthly existence he is able to contemplate with great satisfaction that, praise be to God, through the assistance of the Almighty, he has been fortunate and given his belongings, his life, his spirit, his body and all his faculties in the path of the love of God, accepting all manner of persecutions, revilings and afflictions with serenity of
page 155
consciousness and standing firm in the Cause till his very last breath.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 20 February 1914.
__________
While we were living in Baghdád one of the most honourable men in Persia came there.  He called on Bahá'u'lláh and as he used to come and see us often I became attached to him.  I grew to love him very much and as he was not a believer I spoke to him about the Cause.  I used to tell him:
"My friend, the aim of this life is not the acquirement of wealth, honour and glory, not the display of the animal attributes such as eating, sleeping and chasing worldly pleasures.  Such aimless and insipid pursuits do not befit man who is endowed with divine effulgence and radiant longings.  The object of this life is the attainment of the spirit, the manifestation of the fear of God, the attainment of the knowledge of God, the acquisition of the love of God, the attaining [of] the good pleasure of the Lord of mankind.  If man characterizes himself with these God-like attributes he will become freed from all ties of this mortal world, the light of God will shine in his heart, he will hear the voice of the heavenly angels, he will be surrounded by the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, he will become an irradiating centre of the perfect names and qualities of the Merciful and a light through which the darkness of the world of humanity is dispelled! "
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 19 February 1914.
__________
When a man is thirsty he drinks water.  When he is hungry he eats food.  But if a man be not thirsty, water gives him no pleasure and if his hunger be already satisfied, food is distasteful to him.
This is not so with spiritual enjoyments.  Spiritual enjoyments bring always joy.  The love of God brings endless happiness.  These are joys in themselves and not alleviations.  The life of animals is more simple than that of man.  Animals have all their needs supplied for them.  All the grasses of the meadows are free to them.  The birds build their nests in the branching trees and the palaces of kings are not so beautiful.  If earthly needs are all then the animals are better supplied than man.  But man has another food, the heavenly manna of the knowledge of God.  All the divine prophets and Manifestations appeared in the world that this heavenly manna, might be given to man.  This is the food which fosters spiritual growth and strength and causes pure illumination in the souls of men.  They become filled with the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  They increase in the knowledge of God and in those virtues which belong to the world of humanity.  They attain to the very image and likeness of God.
What greater joy is there than this?  When they invoke God's favour at the divine threshold their minds become open, they enter into spiritual pleasures and make discoveries.  By this they enjoy ecstasies of the Spirit and see the world illumined.  They are filled with insight.  They become fully attuned to the bounties of God and see them face to face, acquiring in themselves the virtues of the Manifestations.32  Thus it is that man shall attain to the utmost hopes of the holy ones and the saints.
If man could not attain to this illumination and these bounties the mineral world would be better than he for it is not deficient in anything.  When man is deprived of the illumination of God he feels a lack and a shortcoming on his part.
page 161
God created in us a divine holy spirit,-the human spirit with its intellectual powers which are above the powers of nature.  By this he enjoys the ecstasies of the spirit and sees the world illumined.  The tree and the stone have not this power; they have no mind or soul; therefore they are excused.  We are not excused.  This power gives man effectual control over nature.  He is enabled to discover reality and bring invisible things into the courts of the visible.  Thus he is enabled to render effective the will of God and give it material station.  This is what is meant by his holiness Bahá'u'lláh when he said, "Verily we have created thee rich, why have ye made yourselves poor?"  And Jesus Christ, when he said, "The Father is in me and I in you."  It was this power which through Bahá'u'lláh said, "Noble have I created you, why do ye degrade yourselves?"  This power distinguishes you above all other creatures, why do you devote it only to your material conditions?  This is that which should be used for the acquisition and manifestation of the bounties of God, that ye may establish the kingdom of God among men and attain to happiness in both worlds, the visible and the invisible.
Address given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, at Green Acre, 20 August 1912.
__________
Asked, "How could a man who does not know God feel it a punishment to be without that knowledge?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:
"No man can be happy without God, though he may not know why he is miserable."
Extract from Notes of Aline Shane Devin, October, 1900.
__________
The soul of man must be happy, no matter where he is.  One must attain to that condition of inward beatitude and peace, then outward circumstances will not alter his spiritual calmness and joyousness.  No one can imagine a worse place than the barracks of 'Akká.33  The
page 162
climate was bad, the water was no better.  The surroundings were filthy and dirty, the treatment of the officials was unbearable and we were looked upon as the enemies of religion and corruptors of morals.  The government had given an order that during our stay in 'Akká no one must talk with us and we must not talk with each other.  Having arrived in 'Akká they found there were not enough rooms in the barracks to imprison us separately so they put us all in two rooms with no furniture at all.  The court of the barrack had a most gloomy aspect.  There were three or four fig trees over the branches of which several ominous owls screeched all night.  Every one got sick and there were neither provisions nor medicine.  At the entrance of the barrack there was an undertaker's room.  It was a horrible room.  Yet I lived there two years with the utmost happiness.  Up to that period I had not had time to read the Qur'án from first to last but then I had ample time and used to read this holy book with fervour and enthusiasm.  Going over the incidents and events of the lives of former prophets and finding how parallel they were with that of Bahá'u'lláh, I was consoled and encouraged.  I would read for instance the following verse:  "How thoughtless are the people!  Whenever a prophet is sent to them they either ridicule him or persecute him."  And then I would read this verse, "Verily, our host is victorious over them."
I was very happy all the time because I was a free man.  Shut off in that room my spirit travelled throughout the immensity of space.  At night I went on the roof and communed with the countless stars.  What a divine feast!  What a heavenly procession!  What a spiritual freedom!  What beatific bliss!  What celestial sovereignty!
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 3 July 1913.
page 163
__________
Know thou that there are two kinds of happiness-spiritual and material.
As to material happiness, it never exists; nay, it is but imagination, an image reflected in mirrors, a spectre and shadow.  Consider the nature of material happiness.  It is something which but slightly removes one's afflictions; yet the people imagine it to be joy, delight, exultation and blessing.  All the material blessings, including food, drink, etc., tend only to allay thirst, hunger and fatigue.  They bestow no delight on the mind nor pleasure on the soul; nay, they furnish only the bodily wants.  So this kind of happiness has no real existence.
As to spiritual happiness, this is the true basis of the life of man because life is created for happiness, not for sorrow; for pleasure, not for grief.  Happiness is life; sorrow is death.  Spiritual happiness is life eternal.  This is a light which is not followed by darkness.  This is an honour which is not followed by shame.  This is a life that is not followed by death.  This is an existence that is not followed by annihilation.  This great blessing and precious gift is obtained by man only through the guidance of God.
Spiritual happiness is light, while sorrow is darkness.
This happiness is glad-tidings, while sorrow is disappointment.
This happiness is the Kingdom while sorrow is the earthly world.
This happiness is life, while sorrow is non-existence.
This happiness is the fundamental basis from which man is created, worlds are originated, the contingent beings have existence and the world of God appears like unto the appearance of the sun at mid-day.
This happiness is but the love of God.
This happiness is but the eternal might the brilliant traces of which are shining forth, unto the temples of unity.
Were it not for this happiness the world of existence would not have been created.
Extract from an early Tablet to a Bahá'í in Paris.


VII:16, 31 December 1916
page 158
Tablet to a believer in St. Louis
'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a few years ago:
"Thy letter was received.  Thou hast written that in these days the establishment of the meeting has become impossible in that city.  Be thou not unhappy.  A day shall come when innumerable meetings in the utmost grandeur shall be established in that city.  The cause of God shall be raised and the breath of the Holy Spirit shall impart eternal life.  Be thou not sad.  This indifference is temporary.  Ere long the fires of the love of God shall raise a flame in that city and the splendours of the sun of truth shall cast intense rays and the melody of the Kingdom shall be heard."


VII:16, 31 December 1916
page 160
Tablet to Mr Alfred Lunt, Boston, Mass.
To his honour, Mr Alfred Lunt-Upon him be greeting and praise!
O thou my friend of the Kingdom!
Praise be to God, that the city of Boston is stirred into cheerfulness and the believers of God and the maidservants of the Merciful in the utmost firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament are engaged in the diffusion of the fragrances of God, that the divine favours and bestowals are continually descending upon the assembly of that city, for they have attained to capacity, and capacity like unto a magnet attracts the heavenly graces unto men.  Ever do I supplicate at the threshold of the Lord of Hosts and beg for the friends infinite confirmations.  It is my hope that supplications toward the Kingdom of God may be answered.
According to what is heard the convention of Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was going to be held in Boston.  The believers of Boston must consider this as one of the greatest divine bounties and strive with all their strength so that all the delegates coming to the convention from the different cities of America may become attracted, thankful and grateful and spend a few days with the utmost joy and happiness; thus the convention in a behoving manner may become assisted in the promotion of the teachings of God, the hearts may become like unto the clear mirrors, the rays of the Sun of Reality shine therein, the melody of thanksgiving and glorification to the Lord of Hosts may ascend to the Supreme Concourse, the sleepy ones become awakened and the dead ones alive.  Convey to each and all the friends longing greeting on my behalf.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
[Contained in a letter from Ahmad Sohráb, 12 October 1916, Haifa, Syria.]


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 165
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Mrs Georgia Ralston
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Georgia Ralston.
O thou spiritual daughter of the Kingdom!
The letter that thou hast written to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb was perused.  It imparted exceeding joy, joy to the heart, for it contained very good news, that, praise be to God, the friends of God, notwithstanding the interruption of the means of correspondence, are in the state of the utmost joy and fragrance.  This must indeed be the condition of those souls who have entered the Kingdom.  They must not be discouraged by any obstacles, nay, rather, they must, day by day, increase their attraction and enkindlement, for confirmations are descending upon them from the heavenly Spirit.  You must be firm and steadfast to such a degree that not only the interruption of the means of communication, but should 'Abdu'l-Bahá hasten from this world to another world and soar from this mortal prison to the immortal rose-garden, none of you must be shaken or disturbed; nay, rather, moment after moment the strength of heart be augmented and firmness and steadfastness be increased.  For when the lamp of the love of God is ignited in the heart, its flame must become purer and whiter day by day-thus from head to foot he may become a torch of flaming fire.  When his holiness the Báb and his holiness Bahá'u'lláh ascended to the Supreme Concourse, the intensity of the fire of the service of the friends of God became an hundred fold and in the assemblages of humanity they shone out with the utmost sanctity and purity.  I hope you will likewise attain to such a station.
Convey longing greetings, on my
page 166
behalf, to each and all the friends.  Should we enjoy life after this war, we shall correspond with all the believers.  Upon thee be greeting and praise!
[Tablet contained in letter from Ahmad, 9 October 1916, Haifa, Syria, to Mrs Georgia Ralston, New York City.]
__________
Miss A. Boylan
My dear Bahá'í sister,
To the maid-servant of God, Miss A. Boylan-Upon her be greeting and praise!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Although it is a long time that I have not written a letter to that steadfast one in the Testament, still thou art ever before the sight and never forgotten.  Now and then letters are being received from those friends that, praise be to God, they are engaged in service and are holding in their hands the candle of guidance, dispelling the darkness of superstitions and doubts.  Convey to the dear daughter, Mrs Krug, my respectful greeting.  Some time ago I wrote her a brief note.  It is hoped that her illumined meeting is still continued and the maid-servants of the Merciful gather in that assembly and are occupied in the commemoration of His Highness, the Almighty, are engaged in the establishment of unity and concord.  Those days that meetings were held in her home and I used to present myself there and talk with the friends of God shall never be forgotten.
Upon thee and upon her be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
[Tablet contained in letter from Ahmad, 11 October 1916, Haifa, Syria, to Miss A. Boylan, New York City.]
page 167
__________
Dr Pauline Barton-Peeke
To the maid-servant of God, Doctor Pauline Barton-Peeke.-Upon her be greetings and praise!
O thou the inheritor of the great, respected Mrs Peeke!
Although that beloved maidservant of God ascended from this mortal world to the world of immortality, praise be to God, she left thee behind as a token of herself.  All the dwellers of the Kingdom and myself are pleased with thy services to the Kingdom of God.  Truly I say the believers of God and thyself are displaying every effort in the promotion of the teachings of God in Cleveland.  The evidence demonstrating this fact is that you have not forgotten us, nay rather with the utmost exertion and endeavour you are engaged in the service of Truth.  Thank ye God that ye are confirmed therein.  Ere long ye shall observe most important results and ye will behold the doors of the everlasting glory open before your faces.  I am ever expecting to receive good news from you and the Cleveland believers, and in your behalf I supplicate and entreat toward the Kingdom of God, that every one of you may become ignited with the fire of the love of God and bestow the light of guidance upon that region and continent.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
[Tablet contained in letter from Ahmad, 12 October 1916, Haifa, Syria, to Dr Pauline Barton-Peeke, Cleveland, Ohio.]
__________
Mr and Mrs Harlan F. Ober
Haifa, Syria, 11 July 1916.
To Mr and Mrs Harlan F. Ober.
O ye two firm ones in the Covenant!
Although we are living in the Holy Land and you are dwelling in the United States, yet the spiritual relations and the communication of the hearts are firm and steadfast because the unity of the Divine Essence has bonded us together.  In this material world we are cemented together and, God willing, in the Universe of God, the world of the Kingdom, we will be the associates and intimates of each other.  Truly I say Mr Ober rendered a great service to the Kingdom of God and undertook a long and arduous trip to India, and during our stay in America, Mrs Ober served with heart and soul.  Both of them are encircled with the Divine Favours and are firm and steadfast in the lordly Covenant.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
Original received by Mr Joseph H. Hannen, Washington, D.C., 25 September 1916.
__________
Mr Fred Mortensen
To Mr Fred Mortensen, Minneapolis, Minnesota.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá.
O thou illumined youth!
Thy letter was received.  Its perusal produced the utmost joy; for its contents indicated faith and its significances were proofs of firmness in the Covenant.  That trip of thine from Minneapolis to Green Acre will never be for-
page 168
gotten.34  Its mention will be recorded eternally in books and works of history.  Therefore, be thou happy that, praise be to God, thou hast an illumined heart, a living spirit and art vivified with a merciful breath.  Convey my greeting, longing and respect to the Editor of Labor Review and say:  "This paper of yours in the future ages will become superior to all the newspapers of the world, because you have published in its columns the proclamation of the kingdom of Abhá.  I hope thou wilt become assisted to promote the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Then thou Wilt observe that this paper has become a luminous star and the cause of the illumination of the hearts of humanity."
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 September 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 168
"We are ourselves the means of our degradation and exaltation"
Extract from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 23 January 1914.
A young man by the name of Mírzá Lutfu'lláh, who has been here (Haifa) for a month, was about to leave this afternoon for Aleppo, so 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed him, saying:
"Now that thou hast decided to live in Aleppo, thou must act, speak and conduct thyself with such holiness, sanctity, purity and chastity as to attract to the Cause everyone who comes in contact with thee, that everyone may testify that here lives in our midst an upright and virtuous man, that he has turned his face toward God, that he is spiritual, celestial and divine.  A person through his own actions and deeds makes himself loved or disliked by the people; or through his own unselfish conduct and behaviour, refined morality and selfless intention, trustworthiness and rectitude he suffers himself to become favoured and beloved at the threshold of God.
There is a young man of Jewish origin in the college of Beirut by the name of Mírzá Habíbu'lláh Khudábakhsh, who has fulfilled these requirements.  Formerly he was not known, but now everyone knows him through his sanctity, purity of life, sincerity of aim and the beauty of his holiness, and he is favoured and near the court of the Almighty, and loved and respected by all.  From whomsoever you inquire of him the utmost satisfaction and pleasure is expressed concerning him.
Therefore, it is now proven that we are ourselves the means of our degradation and exaltation; that people are attracted to us or repelled by us according to the attributes and deeds emanating from us.  In short, I hope that thou mayst live in such wise in Aleppo that all the inhabitants may exclaim:  "'This man is not a Bahá'í in a nominal way, but in a real manner; he is a Bahá'í in deed and not in words alone.'  For this reason his holiness Bahá'u'lláh hath said:  'My sorrow is not occasioned by my enemies, but by those souls who attribute themselves to me but whose deeds and actions are conducive to the degradation of the Cause.'"
While 'Abdu'l-Bahá was walking in the rose-garden he passed by Hájí Mullá Abú-Tálib, the very old man with stooped shoulders and long beard.  He
page 169
looked at him, then at others, and smiled.
"Hájí Mullá Abú-Tálib is my friend," he said.  "He looked just as old forty years ago when he came to this blessed spot for the first time.  Now he has come never to leave.  Are you well and happy?  How can you descend and ascend the mountain every day?"
Then he came very near to him and looked at his thin and probably soiled overcoat.
"Hast thou not received thy new overcoat?  I have brought one for thee, I will send it up for thee.  Man must keep his clothes always clean and spotless."
He answered:  "I am not particular about my outward clothes, but the robe of the virtue of God is necessary for us."  Immediately 'Abdu'l-Bahá's face lighted up:
"Thou art right, the believers of God must ever strive to clothe their spiritual bodies with the garment of the virtue of God, the robe of the fear of God, and the vesture of the love of God.  These robes will never become threadbare.  They will never be out of fashion.  Their market values do not fluctuate.  They are always negotiable and ever on demand.  They are the means of the adornment of the temple of man and woman.
"But the outward raiment must be also clean and immaculate, so that the outer may be a, faint expression of the inner.  Cleanliness is one of the fundamental laws of this religion."


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 171
"Hast thou love"
Extract from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 June 1914.
"When our American visitors left the house a Christian minister called on 'Abdu'l-Bahá. ...  Then the minister asked about the mission of Christ.  Without pause 'Abdu'l-Bahá continued, "His holiness Christ came for the promulgation of the law of love; all the prophets were sent, all the books were revealed, so that the law of love might be promoted.  But a few self-seeking people subverted the original aims of the religion of God, changed its pure current and made it an instrument of hatred and rancour and quarrel and sedition.  Why should we hate the members of other religions?  Why should we not love each other?  Why should we be tattlers and busy-bodies and gossip-mongers?  Why are we not looking at our own shortcomings?  Why do we not let people alone?  Why do we not search after our own faults?  'And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?  O, how wilt thou say to the brother, let me pull the mote out of thine eye and behold, a beam is in thine own eye!  Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam that is in thine own eye and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote that is in thy brother's eye.'  Let us have love and more love, a love that melts all opposition, a love that conquers all foes, a love that sweeps away all barriers, a love that aboundeth in charity, large-heartedness, tolerance, and noble-striving, a love that triumphs over all obstacles, a boundless, resistless, sweeping love.  Ah me!  Each one must be a sign of love, a sea of love, a centre of love, a sun of love, a star of love, a haven of love, a pearl of love, a palace of love, a mountain of love, a world of love, a universe of love.  Hast thou love?  Then thy power is irresistible.  Hast thou sympathy?  Then all the stars will sing thy praise!"


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 171
"Earth should be a Paradise"
Part of an Address delivered by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a gathering of Socialists in Coronation Hall, St. Lawrence Street, Montreal, Canada.  From the Montreal Star (Daily), September 1912.
"Earth should be a Paradise," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
"There are certain species of life that seemingly can live solitary and alone.  Certain trees, certain animals and even herds wander far from their kind.  But man is necessarily ever in need of co-operation and mutual help.
"In reality all mankind represents one family.  God desires that each individual member of the body politic should live in the utmost well being and comfort.
"If all do not so enjoy life there is a lack of symmetry in the body politic.  'Let us look after ourselves,' the selfish say, 'Let others die; so long as I am comfortable, all is going well!'  Such a callous attitude is due to a lack of control and a lack of working law!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá then outlined a scheme which had been formulated by Bahá'u'lláh, the great Bahá'í Prophet, for ensuring the economic happiness of the people.  In this scheme farmers were first to be dealt with for the agricultural industry is the most important and the most useful in the national life.  It provides that every village community have a general storehouse to which a number of revenues would come.  This income from the communal fund would
page 172
include tithes, a certain percentage from the number of animals and one-third from mines and minerals.
Should anyone die without an heir, all his wealth would revert to the general storehouse and any treasure trove that was picked up would become public property.
The scheme further advocates that tithes be collected from the farmers on a graded scale.  If a man's (necessary) expenditure equalled his income he would pay nothing.  If one had an expenditure of one thousand dollars and an income of two thousand, he would pay one-tenth; from one having an income of ten thousand dollars and expense of one thousand, two-tenths would be exacted.  If one had an income of twenty thousand and his expense were two thousand, the taxes would amount to one-fourth.  If the income were two hundred thousand dollars and the expense ten thousand, then the community would exact one-half.
From this general storehouse the less fortunate members of the commonwealth would draw to secure their share of the common welfare.
There would be no poverty in the community.  Orphans, cripples, the poor, the blind, the deaf, the aged, the helpless, would be looked after.  The people themselves would elect trustees for the administration of the public trust.
Whatever surplus there might be after all were provided for would go to the national exchequer.  For the big cities such a scheme would be carried out on a much more extended scale.
"Under this system," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "every member of the community would live in comfort, without fear, and without being under obligations to anyone.
"Degrees or grades would not be abolished.  These would be necessary, as in an army it is necessary to have marshals, generals, colonels, sergeants and foot-soldiers.  But notwithstanding grades, all would have the right to share in the general well being.
"The earth can be made a Paradise.  Let all the servants of God ever strive that such a great happiness may accrue to the world of humanity."


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 172
The heavenly tables
To three pilgrims to 'Akká, 5 September 1901, at supper, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"We should remember these meetings when we return to our homes.  When we go to Paris, London and America we must remember these nights and these gatherings and must show the same spirit of love that is manifested here.
"The meal is divided into two parts, material and spiritual.  We hope that this is both.  The tables mentioned in the Bible are the spiritual tables.  The effect of the material table lasts for twelve hours but that which is divine is everlasting and eternal.
"For example,-'Revelation' is one of the heavenly tables.  As an illustration, think of the knowledge revealed two thousand year ago; we feel the effect of it now and that effect will remain forever.
"Some of the heavenly tables are the divine teachings and their power and effect will be everlasting.  Another of the godly tables is His love, which is the cause of Eternal Life.  Others of these tables are unity and harmony amongst the believers, like as we are gathered here tonight, the effect of which will remain forever and ever."


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 173
Divine teachings
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá reprinted from The International Psychic Gazette, July, 1914.
There are two general and principal classes of divine teachings.  One is spiritual, and pertains to the moralities.  This is the fundamental basis of the divine law, unchangeable and unalterable, which has been reiterated and renewed in the cycle of every prophet.  Its commands refer to justice, truthfulness, compassion, faith, love of God, self-devotion, self-sacrifice, steadfastness, including all divine and merciful attributes.  This is the unchanging and unmoving law of God.
The second class of divine teachings is material and deals with behaviour, such as divorce, the commandments, the way of worshipping.  All these conditions have changed in the cycle of every prophet.  The character of divine sovereignty has no change or transformation, but the organization and administration change continually.  This is why Jesus Christ said:  "I came not to destroy the law, but to fulfil it."  At the same time there are conditions that are changeable.


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 173
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Bahá'ís of Germany
Extract from a letter by 'Azízu'lláh to Mrs Alice Schwarz, dated 30 June 1916.
Three days ago when we were all in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's holy presence, I delivered to him the translations of your letters, as well as those of Mr Herrigel and Miss Knobloch.  He read them with a ringing loud voice and closed with a happy facial expression making a few remarks about the dear father (Consul Schwarz) and praising him highly.
After a few minutes of rest he said:
"The religion of God has now been proclaimed in Germany.  When the divine seed takes root in the soil, they will automatically spread and other roots appear and extend into the depth of the hearts.
"Now the cause of Almighty God has taken root in Germany and its roots are going to radiate like trees in full bloom.  In the same manner that pernicious and destructive types of men have a contagious, influence, so the spiritual and divine type exerts an influence that is of a far-reaching and permeating nature.
"It is well known, that when once a blessed soul of any nation steps into the religion of God, it is capable of saving the whole community from the darkness of the world, from materialism and animalism.  He brings to them divine qualities and frees them from indifference towards God, from prejudices which are founded on ignorance, from animal instincts, and from the attachment to the material world and the surrender of self to it-by attachment to the material world, I do not mean social intercourse and economic relations upon which the progress of the world depends, but I mean the ascendancy of the lower life over the higher ideals of human society.  Now, God be praised, shining and divine realities have penetrated into Germany."
After uttering these words, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave us permission to leave saying:  "Now you are to enjoy yourselves upon this mountain of the Lord (Mt. Carmel) on which the Prophets of God used to dwell or often lingered while on earth-rest and recreate after the arduous tasks and exhaustion of the year's study."
__________
For Germany:  To the friends of God-Upon them be greeting and praise!
O ye true friends and ye who are firm in the love of God!
Although it has been a long time since I have written you a letter of any kind, the heart and soul were nevertheless in
page 174
constant communication, and I supplicated to the Kingdom of Abhá that you might be protected and preserved.
Although the unrests of the world are limitless and boundless, my hope is nevertheless that they may end and the dark clouds disappear from the horizon of the universe and that the sun of peace and unity may shine above all horizons.
We must under no circumstances be prevented from praying and the mentioning of God.  We must always be enraptured with the fire of the love of God, be attracted by His Knowledge and be heralds of His Words, so that His invisible confirmations like unto the breeze of dawn, become the cause of spiritual life.
Pray then, that the universe may become a new universe and this dark world a world of light.
Convey my greatest love and affection, greetings and praise to all the friends.
Upon ye all be greetings and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Revealed to Mrs Alice Schwarz, Stuttgart; translated by Mírzá 'Azízu'lláh Khán S. Bahádur, 6 July 1916.


VII:17, 19 January 1917
page 175
The earth and the heavenly civilization35
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Bishop Birch of New York City, at the Hotel Ansonia:
"Praise be to God, that stupendous material developments are obtained in this country; but material civilization alone does not safeguard the progress of a nation, because through material civilization dynamite, Krupp guns, projectiles and Mauser rifles are invented:  thus the infernal instruments of human fratricide are multiplied and constantly perfected.  Therefore, natural civilization fosters both good and evil.
"All the wolfish bloodshed, all this feverish multiplication of military armaments are the results of material civilization.
"When material civilization joins hands with spiritual civilization, then it will be perfect.  In former times a wooden box may have protected your possessions from the thief, but now the safes with their complicated keys and combinations do not daunt the robber.
"Consequently, just as 'good' is advancing through material civilization, 'evil' takes the same pace, unless the earthly civilization become the handmaid of heavenly civilization.  Natural civilization is like unto the body of man.  If the body is animated by the spirit it is alive; otherwise it is a vile corpse which in the long run will become putrid and decayed."
The Bishop expressed his pleasure and
page 176
delight to hear the above words of light.  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:
"I am likewise very grateful to you.  Praise be to God, that your churches are free from prejudices.  They are not so creed-bound as not to be able to breathe.  Many Christian churches in Europe are yet extremely dogmatic.  But I have already spoken in churches belonging to your denomination.  The congregations consisted of most intelligent people.  This is a great distinction.  Hence I love you with all my heart and soul.  My chief aim is to remove the present misunderstanding between the nations of the East and West, so that we may express cordial love toward each other and promote the essentials of the heavenly civilization.  I hope that such a confirmation may be vouchsafed us, so that we may become united."
The Bishop said:  "Up to this time no one has come from the East to the West with such power, such lucid teachings and such an exalted aim.  Therefore I am very grateful to you and most pleased to have met you."


VII:18, 7 February 1917
page 177
The Divine Art of Living (continued)36
A compilation by Mary M. Rabb.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16]
CHAPTER II
Some characteristics of divine souls
Walk, while ye have the light, that darkness overtake you not.
He that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.  While ye have the light believe in the light that ye may become sons of light. (John 12:35-36.)
__________
I beg of God that the divine light that is spoken of in John, in the twelfth chapter, may shed its rays upon thee forever, so that thou mayst always be in light.  The life of man in this world is short and will soon draw to an end; consequently one must appreciate every moment of his life, exerting himself in that which is conducive to eternal glory.
Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 106.
__________
The sun is in the utmost effulgence but the surface turned toward it must be a mirror.  The clearer it is the more light shall be reflected therein.
Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas; Vol. I, p. 207.
__________
Spirituality is the possession of a good, a pure heart.  When the heart is pure the Spirit enters and our growth is natural and assured.  Every one is better informed of the condition of his own soul than of the soul of others.  Our responsibility to God increases with our years.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 18.
__________
When the spirit is confirmed and assisted by the confirmation of the Holy Spirit then it will show its effect in every condition of the world of existence.
An early Tablet; translator not given.  Signed:  'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Unless man maketh spiritual progress in the world of spirit, intellect and heart he cannot gather universal results from material advancements.
Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 565.
__________
The spiritual life is symbolized by
page 178
simplicity and contemplation combined with usefulness and well-guided activity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 March 1914.
__________
Question:  What can I do to become the real servant of God?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Live thou in accord with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Do not only read them.  There is a vast difference between the soul who merely reads the words of Bahá'u'lláh and the one who tries to live them.  Read thou the Hidden Words.  Ponder over their meanings and embody the behests into thy life.  All that I might say is only one drop of that illimitable sea.  My duty is to explain, to elucidate, to interpret the writings of Bahá'u'lláh.  For example:  we must investigate the reality; we must show real love to the world of humanity; we must work for the establishment of universal peace; we must sacrifice our lives in the guidance of mankind; we must be kind to all the creatures of God; we must raise the call of the Kingdom; we must characterize ourselves with spiritual characteristics; we must show forth in our words and deeds the attributes of the holy ones.
I declare by him beside whom there is nought else, if we live in accord with one of the teachings we will become radiant like unto this lamp.  If we confess verbally that Bahá'u'lláh's principles are the cause of eternal salvation and the means of nearness unto the throne of God and yet do not live according to their instructions we are not Bahá'ís.  Therefore day and night we must pray for each other, so that we be assisted to express in our lives the universal spirit of Bahá'u'lláh.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 1 June 1914.
__________
The following is an excerpt from a conversation between 'Abdu'l-Bahá and an Esperantist globe-trotter, who was unconscious of the identity of the person he was addressing:
Globe-trotter:  'Serve God!'  There is no one in this world who can serve God, because we are not able to see him.  He is above our human ken.  In my mind the only way we can serve him is to serve mankind, and try to alleviate the sorrows and sufferings of the people.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Christ served God and his apostles served God.  Their service was to humanity and was a reflection of their service to God.
Globe-trotter:  In this age the Christians have forgotten the commandments of Christ.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  What hast thou to do with others?  Live thou according to the teachings of Christ.
__________
The cause of God is like unto a college.  The believers are like unto the students.  The college is founded for the sake of the acquirements of science, arts and literature.  If the sciences are not therein and the scholars are not educated the object of the college is not achieved.  The students must show the results of their study in their deportment and deeds; otherwise they have wasted their lives.  Now the friends must so live and conduct themselves as to bring greater glory and results to the religion of God.  To them the cause of God must be a dynamic force transforming the lives of men and not a question of meetings, committees, futile discussions, unnecessary debates and political wire-pulling.
What is the sum-total and upshot of farming, ploughing, sowing the seeds
page 179
and irrigating?  Is there any other thought behind all these labours save the gathering of crops?  If the sheaves are only green and verdant but having no grains of wheat or barley the result is not achieved.  The aim has been not the luxuriant verdancy of the field but the richness of the harvest.  I hope the believers will do their utmost to crown their lives with abundant harvest.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 6 May 1914.
__________
Question:  How can one understand the object of his life?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  There are two kinds of understanding; objective and subjective.  To illustrate:  thou seest this glass, or this water and thou dost comprehend in an objective manner their constituent parts.  On the other hand, thou canst not see love, intellect, hate, anger, sorrow, but thou dost recognize them in a subjective way through their signs and manifestations.  The first is material, the second is spiritual.  The first is outward, the second is intuitive.  I hope that thou mayst make great advancement in the second kind of understanding.  Turn thy face toward God, and say:
O God!  Refresh and gladden my spirit!  Purify my heart!  Illumine my powers!  I lay all my affairs in thy hand.  Thou art my guide and my refuge.  I will not be sorrowful and grieved any more.  I will be a happy and joyful being.  O God!  I will worry no more.  I will not let trouble harass me any longer.  I will not dwell on the unpleasant things of life.  Thou art kinder to me than myself.  I dedicate myself to thee, O Lord!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 May, 1914.
__________
Life, life-let us have more life!  Let us have the life of the spirit, a life which is a collective centre of the beneficial forces, a life of sympathy, of practical co-operation, of celestial brotherhood.  Let our life be an emanation of the kingdom of Christ.  He came into this world to minister and not to be ministered unto.  His greatest commandment was, "But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven; for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.  For if ye love them that love you, what reward have ye?  Do not even the publicans the same?  And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others?  Do not even the publican so?  Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect!"
The Bahá'ís must fulfil to the letter the requirements of these holy principles.  Every one of them must become the embodiment of these lofty ideals.  The thoughts of preference must be banished from the minds.  In the sight of the Heavenly Father all are equal.  The religion of God is for the equalization of rights and not for the gradation of classes and the distribution of privileges.  The religion of God is the leveller of all social inequalities and the destroyer of sacredotal distinctions.  In the court of the Almighty there are no offices or positions.  Brotherhood?  Yes.  Humanity?  Yes.  Spiritual fellowship?  Yes.  Self-sacrifice?  Yes.  Extinction of self?  Yes.  Class?  No.  Preference?  No.  Titles?  No.  Spiritual superiority?  No.  Special privileges?  No.
In the religion of Bahá'u'lláh all are servants and maid-servants, brothers and sisters.  As soon as one feels a little better, a little superior to the rest he is in a dangerous position, and unless he casts away the seed of such an evil
page 180
thought he is not a fit instrument for the service of the Kingdom.  The religions of the past have fallen into decay on account of self-seeking leaders who in the course of time appropriated all the rights and powers unto themselves and looked down contemptuously upon the rest of their co-religionists as ignorant and deprived of the knowledge of God.
The Bahá'ís must be always on the alert, so that they may not fall into this pit.  They must keep the religion of God pure and uncontaminated, a haven of rest for the despondent souls, a safe harbour for the shipwrecked, a divine antidote for the ailing ones, a torch of light for those who are groping in the darkness, and a spiritual democracy for the down-trodden and the outcast.
Service, social, moral, intellectual service must be the sole aim of a soul.  He must be sincere and heartfelt in his profession, otherwise he will not succeed and his simulation will soon be found out by his co-religionists.  Every Bahá'í must be a loyal servant of the world of humanity.  Bahá'ís must clothe themselves with the robe of service, sit around the table of service, eat the food of service, drink the elixir of service, talk the problems of service, hold communication with the King of service, walk in the path of service, crown their heads with the diadem of service, be intoxicated with the wine of service, and quaff the salubrious water from the fountain of service.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 23 May 1914.
__________
All things were created for man and man for God.  Man is distinguished from all other creations.  Man, who is in part animal, possesses all the virtues of the mineral, because he has a body; he possesses the added faculty of the vegetable, growth; he has the virtue of the animal kingdom, sensation; and above all, he possesses reflective and mental power, by which he understands the reality of things.  Perceiving and reflecting upon visible things, he realizes the reality of unknown things.  When a man gazes at the earth he sees it as if it were level, but by his perception he finds that it is a globe.  This power of perception can never be found in the animal kingdom.  But man by this power can prove that the sun is a centre and that the globe and other bodies revolve around it.  This power of judgement, possessed only by man, proves his excellence; for the virtues and faculties of other things and substances are created by man, and, above all, he is given virtues with which the other kingdoms are not endowed.  Everything is for man.
We speak now in examples, as Christ spoke in parables.  The world is like a tree; the mineral kingdom is like the root; the vegetable kingdom is like the branches; the animal kingdom is like the blossoms; and man is like unto the fruit of that tree.  The tree is but for its fruit.  If the gardener did not expect fruit he would never plant trees.  In the same way everything is for man.
There are two sides to man.  One is divine, the other worldly; one is luminous, the other dark; one is angelic, the other diabolic.  Man is equal to the animals in all sensuous conditions, for all animal characteristics exist in him.  Likewise, divine and satanic qualities are contained in man; knowledge and ignorance; guidance and error; truth and falsehood; generosity and avarice; inclination towards God and tendency towards Satan; chastity and purity; corruption and vileness; valour and timidity; economy and avidity; good and evil:  all are contained in man.
If the angelic side becomes more powerful and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place and eternal life is found at this point.  Man becomes the noblest
page 181
among creatures.  On the other hand, if sensuous qualities surround and if terrestrial darkness and sensuous passions predominate; if they meet in man only the worldly feelings, if they find him a captive of evil qualities and fallen into everlasting death, then such a man is the basest and most abject among all creatures.  In such a man divine power does not exist.  An animal is not considered unjust and evil because of its cruelty and injustice, for it is not endued, as is man, with divine qualities.  But if man falls into the same evil condition it is evident that he has permitted his ungodly attributes to overcome the divine qualities with which he was endowed.  This shows the baseness and meanness that exist in human nature.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Table Talks with Abdul-Baha, pp. 10-13.
__________
The nobility and glory of man consist in the fact that, amidst the beings, he is the dawning-place of righteousness.  Can any greater blessing be imagined by man than the consciousness that by divine assistance the means of comfort, peace and prosperity of the human race are in his hands?
No, there is no greater or more complete pleasure or happiness than this.  How long then shall we seek our own selfish desires, on the wings of egoism?  Senses and inner faculties have been bestowed upon us that we may use them for the good of mankind and that we may become distinguished from the lower nature of man by the solidity and justness of our judgement and that we may continually engage ourselves in well-doing (pp. 9-10).
How noble and excellent is man, if he only attain to that state for which he was designed.  And how mean and contemptible, if he close his eyes to the public weal, and spend his precious capacities on personal and selfish ends.  The greatest happiness lies in the happiness of others (p. 11).
He who remaineth idle and indifferent and continueth in his egoism, indulging constantly his carnal appetites descendeth to the lowest abyss of degradation and ignorance, lower is he than the most dangerous of savage beasts.  For it is written, "These indeed are worse than brutes; and meaner than cattle in the sight of God are the deaf and dumb who will not understand" (p. 11).
They have not yet understood that the greatest glory of man, the universal happiness of the world, consists in the joy of soul, high ambition, good intentions, virtue and chastity (p. 44).
Unhappily they imagine that greatness and glory follow on the accumulation of worldly riches and similar vanities.  Now clearly consider!  If a man gives a thought he will see that the omnipotent God has distinguished him from amongst his creatures by the dress of honour, of virtue and intelligence. ... Man has become the spring of divine wonders and the centre of the mysteries of the heavenly Kingdom.
Now why should he pollute this pure mantle with the stain of selfish desires and exchange this eternal honour for the lowest depths of baseness?  "Dost thou think thy body a small thing, while in thee is enfolded the great universe?" (pp. 44-46).
By the details which we have already explained we have endeavoured to show that the glory, happiness, honour and peace of man do not consist in personal wealth but on the contrary in sublimity of soul, nobility of resolution, extension of education and in the solution of the problem of life. ...  "Verily in the souls of man lieth their only glory" (p. 52).
There is a great difference between an authentic man and an imitator of one.
page 182
The former is David himself, the latter is merely the tone of his voice.  Knowledge and wisdom, purity and faithfulness and freedom of soul have not been and are not judged by outward appearances and dress (p. 122).
Man should be a constant source of well-being and contentment and a ready help to prosperity for multitudes of people (p. 54).
We ask, what deeds in the world could be greater than working in the public interests?  Can any higher career be imagined than this, that a man should devote himself to the cause of the education, progress, glory and prosperity of the servants of God?  It is the greatest of pious deeds that the blessed souls should take them that are powerless by the hands and deliver them from ignorance, degradation and poverty and, filled with sincere purpose for the sake of God, should gird up the loins of their ambition in the service of all people, forgetting their own worldly advantage and striving for the common good.  As it is written:  "And prefer others over thyself, even though there be poverty amongst them; the best of men are those who do good to their fellows, and the worst are those who do harm to them" (p. 214).
It is plain and evident that the greatest glory of humanity consists in obeying the omnipotent God, and man's nobility and honour depend upon his following the injunctions and prohibitions of the Lord, the Single One (p. 154).
It is quite plain and obvious that the life of this mortal world like the breezes at daybreak is not enduring but passes away.  Blessed therefore is the great one who, walking in the path of God's will shall leave behind him a praiseworthy fame and happy remembrance.  "When the pure soul is about to pass away, what matter whether it dies on a throne or on the surface of dust" (p. 148).
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization.
__________
As to the seven qualifications of the divinely enlightened soul of which thou hast asked an explanation, it is as follows:
Knowledge.  Man must attain the knowledge of God.
Faith.
page 183
Steadfastness.
Truthfulness.  Truthfulness is the foundation of all the virtues of the world of humanity.  Without truthfulness progress and success in all of the worlds of God are impossible for a soul.  When this holy attribute is established in man all the other divine qualities will also become realized.
Uprightness.  And this is one of the greatest divine attainments.
Fidelity.  This is also a beautiful trait of the heavenly man.
Evanescence or humility.  That is to say, man must become evanescent in God.  Man must forget his own selfish conditions that he may thus arise to the station of sacrifice.
Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 459.
__________
The believers must be firmly founded in the principles of morality and honesty.
First, in truthfulness.  No one should ever tell a lie.
Second, in honesty in all transactions.
Third, forbearance is necessary.
Fourth, the believers must observe the utmost kindness so that all may consider themselves servants of each other and be truthful and honest to all mankind.  If they live up to these commandments the confirmations of the Spirit will surely reach them.  The Spirit will descend and they will surely make progress.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Flowers from the Rose Garden of Acca, p. 2.
__________
From now on you must strive to beautify the moral aspect of your lives.  Advise each other with the utmost consid-
page 184
eration; watch daily your words and deeds.  Thus from the very beginning you may characterize yourselves with divine ideals.  The divine ideals are humility, submissiveness, annihilation of self, perfect evanescence, charity and loving kindness.  You must die to self and live in God.  You must be exceedingly compassionate to each other and to all the people of the world.  Love and serve mankind just for the sake of God and not for anything else.  The foundation of your love toward humanity must be spiritual faith and divine assurance.  Again:  you must be most careful that, God forbid, not one single word contrary to truth issue from your mouths.  One falsehood throws man from the highest station of honour to the lowest abyss of disgrace.  Always guard yourselves against this enemy, so that all you state may correspond with reality.  Forever supplicate and entreat at the court of Majesty and beg confirmation and assistance.  Make ye an effort that you may win the good pleasure of Bahá'u'lláh.  All the natural and supernatural advancements in the human world revolve around this one problem.  If you attain to this supreme goal all the elements of the world of creation will be ready to serve you at your bidding, i.e., they will find their highest attainment in you and through you or, in other words, you will become the fruits of the world of existence. ...  The evolution of the perfect man is a fruit of creation, just as the evolution of the trunk, branches, leaves and blossoms of the tree is the fruit thereof.  Exalt your thoughts.  Reflect over all your affairs.  Magnify your endeavours.  Enlarge the circle of your ideals.  Open the wings of spiritual wisdom.  Let your hope be the accomplishment of most great deeds the results of which may immortalize your names.  All that the people are holding fast to are as the mirage and will not last.
Extract from Address of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to students of Beirut College.  From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 15 April 1914.
__________
When a person's life is purely moral, when his daily actions are propelled by ethical forces he will influence tremendously the lives of those who come in touch with him.  The insincere man learns from him the lessons of sincerity, the faithless becomes faithful, the ignorant, wise, and the cowardly, courageous.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 24 February 1914.
__________
All these wishes are well worthy of asking, especially the rescue from self-love.  This is a strange trait and the means of the destruction of many important souls in the world.  If man be imbued with all the good qualities, but be selfish, all the other virtues will fade or pass away, and eventually he will grow worse.
I hope the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful will be entirely freed from selfishness.  Should this become their nature they will indeed become manifestations of great bounties and the doors of divine grace will open.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet to an American believer; 30 November 1904.
__________
Dissatisfaction with one's self is a sign of progress.  The soul who is satisfied with himself is the manifestation of Satan and the person who is not contented with himself is the manifestation of the Clement One.  If a person has one thousand good qualities he must not look at them; nay rather, he must strive to find out his own defects and imperfections.  For example, a person having a palatial residence furnished with the most expensive furniture and decorated
page 185
with the most exquisite arts, unquestionably will forget all these adornments as soon as he finds out there is a crack in the wall or ceiling and without loss of time will set to repair it.  On the other hand absolute perfection is unattainable by man.  However much a man may advance yet he is imperfect, because there is always a point ahead of him.  No sooner does he look up toward that point than he becomes dissatisfied with his own condition and aspires to attain to that.  Christ desired to teach us this thing in a concrete manner when some one said, "O thou good Master!"  He answered, "Why dost thou call me good?  There is one good, and that is God!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 1 June 1914.
__________
Praising one's self is the sign of selfishness.  Commanding others is not the passport to the realm of spiritual progress.  Here is a man who speaks very few words but he is working all the time and attending to all his duties.  There is another man who sits down, talks continually, and boasts of his past achievements.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 8 July 1914.
__________
There are some people who make this short span of life miserable to themselves and others because they harbour envy in their hearts.  Envy is the most despicable quality in man.  Some people are so filled with it that they cannot bear to see any of their friends receive greater privileges and higher promotions in life than themselves.  Like poison envy kills all their nobler sentiments.  Envy lowers the station of man and makes him a supreme egoist, and self-centred.  If man extricates himself from the claws of this ignoble monster he has defeated the powers of Satan.  Then he will attain tranquillity and peace of mind.  Man must become evanescent and self-denying.  Then all the difficulties and hardships of the world will not touch him.  He will become like unto a sea, although on its surface the tempest is raging and the mountainous waves rising, in its depth there is complete calmness.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, October 26, 1913.
__________
To be approved of God alone should be one's aim.
And has thou realized thy own shortcomings?  One must always search for his own shortcomings so that he may repent at the threshold of Oneness and become protected and guarded; otherwise, pride and haughtiness will take possession of one's heart and this will cause deprivation of the bounties of the Court of Singleness.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From tablet translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 1 November 1909.
page 186
__________
If a man commit a transgression he has been unjust to himself, and soon he will find that he is in manifest regret and remorse.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 August 1914.
__________
The thin eyelid prevents the eye from seeing and what is curtained therein.  Then think of the result when the curtain of greed covers the sight of the heart.  Say, O people!  The darkness of greed and envy obscures the light of the soul as the cloud prevents the penetration of the sun's rays.
Extract from Words of Bahá'u'lláh:  The Primal Word.
__________
A cheerful countenance lends consolation to the beholder.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 February 1914.
__________
A thankful person is thankful under all circumstances.  A complaining soul complains even if he lives in paradise. ...  If we are not thankful who then can be thankful?  Are we not encircled with the bounties of God?  Are we not enveloped with the bestowals of the Blessed Perfection?  Has he not lighted a luminous lamp in our home? ...  Consider how each one of us is surrounded by his favours!  How much divine grace descends upon us!  How often our hearts respond to his call! ...  If we are not pleased then who is there to be pleased?
Verbal thanksgiving is fruitless.  Thanksgiving is rendered in two effective ways.  First, through the realization of spiritual susceptibilities which illumine the courts of the hearts with the bright stars of happiness and rejoice the heart by the glad-tidings of the Merciful.  Second, through deeds, i.e., living in accord with the good pleasure of the Lord:  adorning our being with his heavenly attributes and trying to alleviate the suffering and misery of mankind.
If a man does not do these things, even though he praises God and offers him a hundred thousand thanksgivings every second there will be for that man not the slightest result; it will be but words without light.  Consequently, we must be very happy, very glad, very much pleased, very contented, very joyful,
page 187
because we are submerged in the ocean of the bestowals of Bahá'u'lláh. ...  A thoughtful man enjoys the gifts and the blessings of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 14 February 1914.
__________
Consider thy composure, for composure of thought will become the cause of one's confirmation in the service.  If thou hast not composure of mind in Chicago, undoubtedly thou wouldst be more confirmed in service in New York; but, if thy mind is at peace in Chicago, it is better to stay there for perchance difficulties may arise in New York and then thou wouldst not have composure of mind.  Thou must first think of thy tranquillity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a tablet to a Chicago believer; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
__________
Be thou composed in all conditions.
Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 300.
__________
Live and act thou in the present as far as possible for thee, according to the divine instructions.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a tablet to a Portland believer; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 20 July 1907.
__________
Be not disappointed in thyself; trust thou in the favour and bounty of his highness, the Almighty.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a tablet to a Portland believer; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 July 1908.
__________
Afflictions and troubles are due to the state of not being content with what God has ordained for you.  If one submits himself to God he is happy.
A man asked another:  "In what station are you?"  He answered:  "In the utmost happiness."  "Where does this happiness come from'?"  He answered:  "Because all the existing things move according to my wish; therefore I do not find anything contrary to my desire; thus I have no sorrow.  There is no doubt that all the beings move by the will of God, and I have given up my own will, desiring the will of God.  Thus my will becomes the will of God, for there is nothing of myself.  All are moving by His will, yet they are moving by my will.  In this case, I am very happy."
When man surrenders himself everything will move according to his wish.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Kinney-Beede-Thompson Notes; taken at 'Akká, 6 July 1909.
__________
Man, as an individual unit of human society must not base his deeds according to the law of retaliation.  He must forgive, just as God forgives the sins and transgressions of his servants.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 5 June 1914.
__________
Man must be a mine of piety and sympathy.  He must associate with all mankind with joy and fragrance.  He must not turn away his face from any soul.  He must raise the fallen and cheer the hopeless.  He must treat with kindness both the friend and the stranger.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 24 July 1914.
__________
O ye friends of God!  Show ye an endeavour that all the nations and communities of the world even the enemies put their trust, assurance and hope in you; that if a person falls into error for a hundred thousand times he may yet turn his face to you hopeful that you will forgive his sins; for he must not become hopeless, neither grieved nor
page 188
despondent!  This is the conduct and the manner of the people of Bahá!  You should conform your conduct with the advices of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a tablet to New York Assembly of Bahá'ís; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 May 1909.
__________
May they attain to such heights of altruism as to be ready to sacrifice their lives for each other!  This is the life of the world of humanity!  This is in accord with the good-pleasure of the Blessed Perfection!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 October 1914.
__________
A man must ever think of the protection of others and not of himself.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 October 1914.
__________
Man must always associate with those from whom he can get light or be with those to whom he can give light.  He must either receive or give instructions; otherwise, being with people without these two intentions, is spending one's time for nothing and by so doing he is neither gaining nor causing people to gain.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Kinney-Beede-Thompson Notes; taken at 'Akká, 5 July 1909.
__________
O thou maid-servant!  Have great magnanimity so that thou mayest be favoured in the threshold of the Almighty.  Have lofty aspirations so that thou mayest attain in the kingdom of God to eternal life.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From tablet translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 June 1914.
__________
It is possible to so adjust one's self to the practice of nobility that its atmosphere surrounds and colours all our acts.  When these acts are habitually and conscientiously adjusted to noble standards with no thought of the words that might herald them then nobility becomes the accent of life.  At such a degree of evolution one scarcely needs to try to be good any longer; all our deeds are the distinctive expression of nobility.
'Abdu'l-Bahá,:  From notes of Mrs Mary Hanford Ford; taken in Paris, France, 1911.
__________
Today the real king is the soul who serves all, and dear is he who exhibits humility toward all humanity.  The humbler and lowlier a person shall be the nearer to and more acceptable at the threshold of God is he.
The Beauty of Abhá, Bahá'u'lláh, said that the one nearest the threshold of God is he who serves all and who considers himself evanescent and non-existent; who forgets himself utterly, turns to God alone and for the sake of God serves all mankind.
From Address given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Washington, D.C., 12 May 1912.
__________
Work for the sake of God and for the improvement of humanity, without any expectation of praise and reward.  The present (is always) unimportant, but we must make our present so filled with mighty and altruistic deeds as to assume


VII:19, 2 March 1917
page 195
The Divine Art of Living (continued)37
significant weight and momentous importance in the future.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 May 1914.
__________
Will is the centre or focus of human understanding.  We must will to know God, just as we must will in order to possess the life He has given us.  The human will must be subdued and trained into the will of God.  It is a great power to have a strong will, but a greater power to give that will to God.  The will is what we do, the understanding is what we know.  Will and understanding must be one in the cause of God.  Intention brings attainment.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 30.
__________
In the world of humanity "good intentions" is the greatest means of personal development.  If a person has
page 196
"good intention" he will succeed in all of his undertakings.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 8 April 1914.
__________
The worst human quality and the most great sin, is back-biting, and most especially when it emanates from the tongues of the believers of God.  If some means were devised so that the doors of back-biting could be shut eternally and each one of the believers of God unsealed his tongue in the praise of the other, then the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh would have been spread, the hearts illuminated, the spirit glorified, and the human world would have attained to everlasting felicity.
I hope that the believers of God will shun back-biting completely (gossip-making and fault-finding), each one praising the other cordially, and believe that back-biting is the cause of the divine wrath, to such an extent that if a person back-bites to the extent of one word he may become dishonoured amongst the people; because the most hateful characteristic of man is fault-finding.  One must expose the praise-worthy qualities of the souls and not their evil attributes.  The friends must overlook their shortcomings and faults and speak only of their virtues and not their faults.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a tablet quoted in Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 11 August 1913.
__________
In our physical selves we are like the animals; yet in some ways the animals are even higher than men; they are more restful and composed; more trustful and reliant upon the bounty of God, more in the flow of his will.  The birds of Mount Carmel are his creatures.  They can fly to the highest branches of the trees and build their nests.  From the mountaintops the birds can enjoy the beautiful view of the sea and mountain by their power of sight.  All this beauty exists for us as well.  The love of God, the beauty of God is everywhere and exists for man if he will but rise to spiritual heights, open his spiritual vision and behold it.  Is the king free as the bird is free to fly upward?  The king's head is often heavy with anxiety and the things of this world which hold him down.  The true pleasure and happiness depend upon the spiritual perception and enjoyment.  The powers of mind are the bounties of God given to man to lead him toward spiritual happiness.  The highest grace in man is to love God.  Love of God, knowledge of God is the greatest, the only real happiness, because it is nearness to God.  This is the kingdom of God.  To love God is to know Him.  To know him is to enter his kingdom, and to be near him.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 38.


VII:19, 2 March 1917
page 189
Survival and salvation
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, February 1914.
Thou has asked concerning the spirit and its immortality after its departure.  Know thou that at the time of its translation it ascends and ascends until it reaches the presence of God, clothed in a temple (body) which will not become subject to the changes wrought by ages and cycles, nor by the contingencies of the world, nor the emanations thereof.  It will continue to exist through the eternality of the Kingdom of God-its sovereignty, its dominion, its potency.  From it will appear the signs of God and his qualities, the providence of God and his bestowal.  Verily the pen is unable to move in a befitting manner in explaining this truth-its exaltation and loftiness.  The hand of mercy shall cause it to enter into men's minds, though it cannot be grasped through any explanation, nor be described by those means which are available in the world.
Blessed is the spirit which abandons the body, previously sanctified and freed from the doubts of the nations.  Verily, it moves in the atmosphere of the will of its Lord, and it enters into the supreme paradise.  It is welcomed by the angels of the Most High.  It associates with the prophets of God, and his chosen ones, and it converses with them, and relates to them those events which have happened to it in the path of God, the Lord of both worlds.
Were one to become informed of that which is pre-ordained for the spirit in the worlds of God, the Lord of the throne and the earth, he would become immediately enkindled with the fire of yearning for this impregnable, exalted, holy, and most glorious state of being.
The prophets and the messengers have come in order to guide mankind to the straight path of the true one.  Their aim has been no other than the education of the people, so that at the time of death they may depart to the supreme friend, with perfect sanctification, purification and severance.  I declare that the prophets are causative of the improvements and the progress of the nations.  They are the leaven of existence and the greatest means for the appearance of sciences and arts in this world.
As to the question concerning the soul, know thou, verily, that "soul" is a term applied to numerous realities, according to the exigencies of the following relations in regard to development in the world of existence:
1)	In the mineral kingdom, soul is called "latent force", silently working for the disintegration of the substance of the mineral.
2)	In the vegetable kingdom it is called "virtue augmentative", or the power of growth, which attracts and absorbs the delicate materials of inorganic substance found in the mineral kingdom of matter, and transforms them into the condition of growth.  Thus the inorganic
page190
substance found in the mineral kingdom becomes growing vegetable life through the effect of the word of God.  This vegetable soul, i.e. "virtue augmentative", or power of growth, is a quality which is produced by the admixture of elements, and appears in accidental organisms, of which contingency is an essential attribute.
3)	In the animal kingdom it is called "sense perceptions" (or instinct).  This soul term, as applied to the animal kingdom, is also a natural quality resulting from the mixture of the elements, and it appears from their mingling and combination, for it is a quality which results from the composition of bodies (organisms), and is dispersed at their decomposition.  From this we are to understand that the animal soul is not endowed with the capacity of attaining immortality, as the life force is dispersed at the decomposition of the animal tissues.
All these things up to this point are a contingent reality, and are not a divine reality.  But a contingent reality, which is perpetuated by the fullness of existence, will then suffer no corruption, and will thus become a divine reality, for the accidental reality is only distinguished from the existent reality by its subjection to corruption.  For transformation is an essential necessity to every contingent reality, and this is what the mature wisdom has deemed advisable.
4)	In the human, worldly soul signifies the "rational being, or mind".  This has a potential existence before its appearance in human life.  It is like unto the existence of a tree within the seed.  The existence of the tree within the seed is potential; but when the seed is sown and watered, the signs thereof, its roots and branches, and all of its different qualities, appear.  Likewise, the "rational soul" has a potential existence before its appearance in the human body, and through the mixture of elements and a wonderful combination, according to the natural order, law, conception, and birth, it appears with its identity.
Be it known that to know the reality or essence of the soul of man is impossible, for, in order to know a thing, one must comprehend it, and since a thing cannot comprehend itself, to know one's self in substance or essence is impossible.  As the comprehender cannot be comprehended, man cannot know himself in reality or essence.  In order to obtain knowledge of any reality, or soul of man, the student must study the manifestations, qualities, names and characteristics of man.  This much can be stated, that the reality of man is a pure and unknown essence constituting a depository, emanating from the Light of the Ancient Entity-God.  This essence or soul of man, because of its innate purity, and its connection with the unseen Ancient Entity, is old as regards time, but new as regards individuality.  This connection is similar to that of the ray of the sun-the effect to the primal cause.  Otherwise, the thing that is generated, or the creature, has no connection with or relation to its Generator or its Creator.
Since the pure essence, whose identity is unknown, possesses the virtues of the worlds of matter and of the Kingdom, it has two sides-first, the material and physical; second, the mental and spiritual-which are attributes not found as qualities of matter.  It is the same reality which is given different names, according to the different conditions wherein it becomes manifest.  Because of its attachment to matter and the phenomenal world, when it governs the physical functions of the body, it is called the human soul.  When it manifests itself as the thinker, the comprehender, it is called the mind.  And when it soars into the atmosphere of God, and travels in the spiritual world, it becomes designated as spirit.
There are two sides to man.  One is divine, the other worldly; one is luminous, the other dark; one is angelic, the other diabolic; man is equal to the animals in all sensuous conditions, for all animal characteristics exist in him.  Likewise, divine and satanic qualities are con-
page 191
tained in man; knowledge and ignorance; guidance and error; truth and falsehood; generosity and avarice; valour and timidity; inclination towards God and tendency towards Satan.  Chastity and purity; corruption and vileness; economy and avidity; good and evil; all are contained in man.
5)	If the angelic side becomes more powerful, and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place, and eternal life is found at this point.  Man becomes then the noblest among creatures.  On the other hand, if sensuous qualities surround, and if terrestrial darkness and sensuous passions predominate, if they meet in man only the worldly feelings, if they find him a captive of evil qualities and fallen into everlasting death, then such a man is the basest and most abject among all creatures.  In such a man, divine power does not exist.  An animal is not considered unjust and evil because of its cruelty and injustice, for it is not endowed, as is man, with divine qualities; but if man falls into the same evil condition, it is evident that he has permitted his ungodly attributes to overcome the divine qualities with which he was endowed.  This shows the baseness and meanness that exist in human nature.


VII:19, 2 March 1917
page 192
Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá on immortal life
"His spirit flew from this world"
To the maid-servant of God, Miss MacCutcheon-Upon her be greeting and praise!
Thy letter was received.  On account of the death of thy father and brother the utmost sorrow and regret was produced.  How unfortunate it is that that young man was killed instantly by the sudden shock!  But his spirit flew from this world into the world beyond and the spirit of thy father soared toward the heavenly realm.  Be thou not sad or unhappy for these two heavenly birds flew toward the rose-garden of eternity and attained to the infinite immensity of the Kingdom.  Although those two lamps were extinguished in the earthly glass yet they became the enkindled lamps in the everlasting lamp of the Kingdom.  At this moment they are in the utmost state of joy and happiness and so they shall be throughout all eternity.  Consequently do thou not grieve nor be thou dispirited.
Convey my longing greeting to all the friends of God.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
"She is not counted amongst the dead"
To Mrs A. E. Magee-May her soul be happy!
O thou afflicted one!
In this great catastrophe38 the eyes are weeping and the hearts are burning, because that incomparable plant was growing and developing with infinite joy and fragrance in the garden of the love of God.  She was stirred into cheerfulness by the wafting of the breeze of providence; day by day she was progressing, and she was at all times the cause of the consolation of the hearts of the friends.  I will never forget her, for she was one of the most important personages.  But it was destined that she might become free from this material world, the world of physical sufferings and tribulations, and hasten toward the heavenly universe, so that through the showers of the cloud of grace she may obtain the utmost freshness and infinite deli-
page 193
cacy and yield luscious fruits.  Consequently be thou not unhappy, nor be thou grieved, for she is not counted amongst the dead.  Nay rather she was dead, she became alive; she was evanescent, she became eternal; she was earthly, she became heavenly; she lived in the material world, she became wholly spiritual.  Like unto a bird she was a prisoner and captive in the cage of this body.  This cage was broken; that bird winged its way heavenward, and in the celestial rose-garden she became the associate and companion of other divine birds.  Thou shalt find her in that rose-garden with the utmost joy and fragrance.
Convey on my behalf the utmost kindness and love to Mr and Mrs Inglis.  I beg of God that in this affliction he may bestow upon them patience and consolation, and that they may educate their dear son in accord with their highest and purest standard.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VII:19, 2 March 1917
page 193
In memoriam
Mrs Lua Moore Getsinger
Further word comes from Cairo of the last days of the brave maid-servant of the kingdom, Mrs Lua Getsinger.  Mrs Getsinger went to Cairo last autumn, hoping to leave soon for America, and carry 'Abdu'l-Bahá's message of light to the friends in the West.  The friends in Cairo loved her devotedly and opened their homes to her.  For a number of months she was at the home of Mírzá Taqí Isfahán, "'Abdu'l-Bahá's faithful steward in Cairo", where she suffered a long illness through the winter.  He and his wife cared for their American sister most tenderly.  "Before and after this illness," Miss Eleanor Hiscox writes, though she never recovered her strength, Lua Getsinger went about with heroic will "giving the Bahá'í teachings, her work being chiefly among the young men, as they are the only ones among the Egyptians who know English.  All listened to her eagerly, and all were wonderfully uplifted and blessed by her inspiring words.  The lives of some were completely transformed by her influence.  Such was the power of the words of Bahá'u'lláh upon her lips."
"In the early spring she went to Shoubra, a suburb of Cairo, to the house of another Bahá'í, who greatly desired that she should remain there for a while for the sake of her Bahá'í influence upon his wife and her family, formerly Christian.  And she spent her time in giving them all lessons in English, of which they had some knowledge.  They all loved her devotedly and treated her as their own sister.  It was there her last days were passed.  One night (it was the 2 May) she awoke with, a severe pain in her heart.  She called the family, who telephoned for a doctor.  But before his arrival she passed into the other world after uttering three times, 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá'.
"The grief and sorrow of all the Bahá'ís was very great, for all loved her as a devoted sister.  One of the choicest sites was selected for her tomb.  No expense was spared by the Bahá'í friends for their devoted sister, beloved by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in the last acts which could be done for her.  How they all loved her!  How they still weep when they speak of her!
"Here our sister Lua lies buried in the same city with Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl.  The prophetic words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá have come to pass, for Bahá'í pilgrims and friends already visit her grave with offerings of love and devotion."
In the last days of illness she hovered between the will to serve on earth and the longing to fly away into the glorious
page 194
freedom of "the immensity of the kingdom."  On 12 April she wrote to Miss Hiscox:  "Little by little I am seeing all the reasons why many things are as they are and the lessons I have to learn thereby.  I am sure until the last day of our lives we will be learning lessons, for this world is a school, from which we graduate only when we leave it.  I shall be so glad when the last day comes, and the school is forever (so far as I am concerned) dismissed.  His will, not mine, be done!"
The lessons of the earth-world she learned beautifully in those last days of illness and trial.  As Miss Hiscox says, her suffering "had a purifying influence upon her and seemed to burn away all the dross and to leave her pure gold.  She had only love and forgiveness for all."  She saw that every experience had been for the best.  Like an angel ready to enter the kingdom of light, she turned her face, "a few days before her departure," to the picture of the Centre of the Covenant, which hung on the wall, and said, with tears in her eyes but with manifest firmness:  "All I want to do is his will and to be severed from ought else save God."
[end of Book 4 (Vol. V, Nos 11-19; Vol. VI, Nos 1-19; and Vol. VII, Nos 1-19)]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	A written decree of the Sultán of Turkey.
1	"Aiadi" means "hands" and refers to four Bahá'ís in Tihrán, Persia.
1	A title of Bahá'u'lláh.
1	Covenant-breakers
1	Unable to be refuted or disproved; incontrovertible, incontestable, undeniable.
1	Facsimile on page 217.
1	Of or pertaining to the legendary Cimmerians fabled to live in perpetual darkness.
1	Prolix (of speech, writing, etc.)-long, tedious.
1	Bahá'í from St. Ives, Cornwall, England.  Died 31 December 1914.
1	Thomas Breakwell was the first English Bahá'í.  Refer to H. M. Balyuzi, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 74ff.
1	Covenant-breakers ("Nakazeen")-náqidín or náqidu'l-mitháq
1	People of Turkey.
1	Masjídu'l-Aqsá originally a Christian Church and afterwards turned into a Muslim Mosque by the Caliph Omar, attained great importance in the devotional estimation of the Muslim.  "The Aqsá Mosque, literally, the 'Most Distant' Mosque, is referred to in the Qur'án, and has become identified with the Temple Mount in Jerusalem."  (Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Notes no. 116, p. 216.)
2	Sadratu'l-Muntahá (the furthermost Tree) referred to a tree planted by the Arabs in ancient times at the end of a road, to serve as a guide.  It usually refers to the Manifestations of God on earth.
1	"The discovery of the Master's letter to Andrew Carnegie is very interesting, in spite of the very poor translation of this Tablet, and he will be very pleased to receive a Photostat of the original, or at least a faithful copy of the text in Persian."  (Shoghi Effendi:  Unfolding Destiny, pp. 206-207.  Letter dated 24 October 1947.)
1	These epistles are contained in the Súriy-i-Mulúk, and have been described and analyzed in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society.  Bahá'u'lláh wrote to the Pope, to Queen Victoria, to the Sháh of Persia, and Napoleon III, asking them for their co-operation in his efforts to make his ideas of fraternity and universal peace triumph.  History does not tell us how all of them were received, but the prophecies therein have made them celebrated.  Thus in 1868, he announced to Napoleon III, the approaching fall of his Empire, and to the Pope the loss of his temporal power.
1	Compiled in Stuttgart, Germany, during August, 1914.  This manuscript was presented to 'Abdu'l-Bahá personally by Mr Latimer while in 'Akká in October of the same year.  'Abdu'l-Bahá gave consent to its publication.-The Editors.
1	Compiled in Stuttgart, Germany, during August, 1914.  This manuscript was presented to 'Abdu'l-Bahá personally by Mr Latimer while in 'Akká in October of the same year.  'Abdu'l-Bahá gave consent to its publication.-The Editors.
1	From a talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a large delegation of Theosophists in Hotel Ritz, Budapest, 11 April 1913.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá, reported in Star of the West, Vol. XIII:1, pp. 6-7.
2	Compiled in Stuttgart, Germany, during August, 1914.  This manuscript was presented to 'Abdu'l-Bahá personally by Mr Latimer while in 'Akká in October of the same year.  'Abdu'l-Bahá gave consent to its publication.-The Editors.
1	It is more accurate to say 'Abdu'l-Bahá explained (Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Notes no. 89, p. 206) Bahá'u'lláh's statement (Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 63, p. 41) to mean only one wife was permissible.-M.W.T.
1	Article corrected in accordance with author's letter, Star of the West, VI:19, p. 164.-M.W.T.
1	Article corrected in accordance with author's letter, Star of the West, VI:19, p. 164.  Names of Persians are as given by H. M. Balyuzi.-M.W.T.
1	Mark XII:1-9.
2	Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Kinney-Beede-Thompson Notes, 8 July 1909.-According to Star of the West, VIII:8, p. 103.
3	All quotations unless otherwise specified are from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
4	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 54.
5	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 80.
6	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 49.
7	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 59.
8	Bahá'u'lláh quoted by 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 454.
9	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 11-12.  Talk in New York City given on 14 April 1912.
10	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 127-128.
11	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 156.
12	Liable to legal consideration.
13	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, pp. 161-162.
14	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 109-110.
15	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 17.
16	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 24.
17	Comity:  an association of nations etc. for mutual benefit, or the mutual recognition by nations of the laws and customs of others.
18	Last quotation is replaced by:  'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, pp. 159-160.
19	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 32, p. 30.
20	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 26.
21	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 55.
22	'Abdu'l-Bahá quoted in Lights of Guidance, Nos 1858-9, pp. 548-549.
23	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 41.
24	This is a recognition of the difference in degree of human capacities but the vital point is that to everyone is granted an equal opportunity for the development of his own ability.
25	Italics added.
26	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 238-239.
27	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 171.
28	Cairo, Egypt.
29	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
30	A name for God.
31	A name for God.
32	That is great, world prophets.  "Manifestation" when spelled with a capital "M" signifies in these pages a divinely perfect master who manifests the attributes of God as a pure polished mirror reflects the sun.
33	The prison in Palestine to which Bahá'u'lláh and his family and some other Bahá'ís were sent in 1868.
34	Refers to his riding on the bumpers between railway baggage cars and on freight trains from Minneapolis, Minn., to Green Acre, Maine, in order to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
35	This interview took place six days after 'Abdu'l-Bahá's arrival in the United States, 1912.
36	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
37	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
38	Refers to the death of her daughter, Harriet Magee.
