This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  January-October 2002.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá from the
Star of the West1
Volume XIV, Nos 1-12 (April 1923-March 1924)
Volume XV, Nos 1-12 (April 1924-March 1925),
Volume XVI, Nos 1-12 (April 1925-March 1926)
Volume XVII, Nos 1-12 (April 1926-March 1927)
Volume XVIII, Nos 1-12 (April 1927-March 1928)
and
Volume XIX, Nos 1-12 (April 1928-March 1929)


XV:1, April 1924
page 1
Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh
Justice is loved above all.  In these days the face of Justice hath become clouded with dust; calamities and afflictions have prevailed, covenants have been violated, and promises broken.  The people have become ignorant, unable to distinguish between that which will open their eyes and that which blindeth them; that which leadeth them astray and that which guideth them into the Right Path.
If in these visible days and present world, matters appear from the Realm of Decree contrary to your wishes, be ye not depressed; for Happy and Divine Days shall come and Spiritual World of Holiness shall became manifest, were ye to exchange the Garment of Mortality for the Garment of Immortality and enter the Station of the Paradise of Abhá!
O people, avail yourselves of the Day of God, verily to meet Him is indeed better unto you than that upon which the sun riseth.
The beginning of Wisdom is to acknowledge that which God hath made manifest because through it order hath been firmly established for the preservation of the world.  Each one of the Revealed Words is a Strong Fortress for the world.  Verily thy Lord maketh to appear in every century that which lie desireth, as a Wisdom on His part.  We have ordained unto every land a destiny; unto every hour a fate; unto every Utterance a time; unto every Circumstance a Word!  We have committed to the charge of every land the Sun of Knowledge, so that when the time cometh from it will beam a Command on the Part of God, the All-Knowing.
The Light of men is Justice.  Adorn the Temple of Dominion with the Embroidered Garment of Justice and Virtue, and its Head with the Diadem of the Celebration of your Lord, the Creator of Heaven and Earth.
Assist with the Hands of Justice the broken hearted, and crush the great oppressors with the scourge of the Command of your Lord, the Powerful, the Wise.


XV:1, April 1924
page 9
The Day of God
Supplication revealed by Bahá'u'lláh
Praise be to Thee, O God of Names and Creator of Heaven!  Praise be to Thee, for Thou hast made known unto Thy servants Thy Day, wherein the River of Life streamed forth from the finger of Thy Generosity, and the Fountain of Revelation and Unity became manifest by Thy Manifestation, to all who are in Thy earth and heaven.
O God!  This is a Day the Light of which Thou hast sanctified above the sun and its effulgence.  I testify that this Day is illumined by the Light of Thy Face and by the effulgence of the dawning Lights of Thy Manifestation.
O Thou, my God, and the Beloved of my heart!  With the name of this Day Thou hast adorned Thy Tablet, which is known only to Thee.  Thou hast called it The Day of God.  Nothing is to be seen therein but Thy Supreme Self, and naught is to be remembered save Thy sweetest Name.  Wherefore, when He appeared, the foundations of nations trembled, the learned were bewildered and the wise men were confounded, save those who came near unto Thee, took from the Hand of Favour the pure wine of Thy Inspiration, and drank in Thy Name, saying: "Praise be unto Thee, O Desire of the Nations!  Praise be to Thee, O Beloved of the hearts of the yearning!"

XV:2, May 1924
page 37
Education must include the spiritual ideals of world peace and brotherhood
A compilation from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"The duty of educated men, especially university presidents of the nation, is this:  To teach in the universities and schools ideas concerning universal peace, so that the student may be so moulded that in after years he may help carry to fruition the most useful and human issue of mankind."
__________
"The schools should be free from all religious and racial prejudices, for these often prevent good results from being obtained.  All schools and colleges should have these three foundations.
"First:  They should be sincere in the service of training the souls.  They should discover the mysteries of nature and extend the circle of art, commerce, etc., so that ignorance and the lack of knowledge will pass away and the lights of science and knowledge shine forth from the horizon of the soul and heart.  In all schools and universities, a general rule for training should be made.
"Second:  Training in morality is necessary, so that the pupils' good conduct may remain unchanged and so that they may progress in a most befitting manner, become possessed of lofty ideas, lovers of the world of humanity, and so that they will hold fast to the spiritual perfections and to that which does not displease God.
"Third:  Service to the world of humanity should be obligatory.  Every student should know, with perfect certainty that he is the brother of the people of all religions and nations and that he should be without religious, racial, national, patriotic or political bias, so that he may find the thoughts of universal peace and the love of humankind firmly established in his heart.  He should know himself as a servant of human society of all the countries in the world.  He should see God as the heavenly father and all the servants as his children, counting all of the nations, parties and sects as one family.  The mothers in the homes, the teachers in the schools, the professors in the universities, and the leaders in the lofty gatherings, must cause these thoughts to be penetrative and effective, as the spirit, circulating in the veins and nerves of the children and pupils, so that the world of humanity may be delivered from the calamities of fanaticism, war, battle, hate and obstinacy, and so that the nether world may become the paradise of heaven."
__________
"In this age every face must turn to God! so that spiritual enlightenment will go hand in hand with material education.  Material education alone cannot make the world happy.  Spiritual civilization must assist the material.  The material civilization is like the lamp, but the spiritual civilization is like the light in the lamp.  The lamp without the light is a useless thing."


XV:2, May 1924
page 47
The world of the soul
Jináb-i-Fádil
If we search and investigate and travel through the world of the human soul we find it a boundless, measureless and fathomless reality, a reality which is unique, an ocean which is unfathomable and a world which is infinite.  Ancient thinkers said there are two worlds:  one is the world of human soul and the other the world of nature; both are two unlimited books of God full of knowledge and wisdom and signs of the power of God.  They described the philosopher as one whose inner world was a mirror on which was reflected all the images of the outer world; the philosopher became the prototype of all the discovered truth of life.
When we ponder carefully over the soul of man we realize that the effects of the soul conditions are manifest in all the motions and activities of the external man.  For example, if the soul is functioning in a vibrant, spiritual, optimistic and happy environment its effect will be instantaneous and most powerful on the physical body.  On the other hand, if the soul is in the grip of fear; if it is weak or in a state of melancholy, the body will immediately respond to those vibrations.  Fear and imagination have a great effect upon the body of man.  For example, if a person is swimming and permits fear to take possession of his soul, he will immediately lose confidence and also control of his movements.  If he is walking upon the ridge of a mountain or the top of a high building and fear enters in, he will tremble and fall.  A ropewalker illustrates this principle very aptly.  Through the reasoning faculty such perfect control is maintained that he walks upon the rope with perfect poise.
Also, the effect of the inner man upon the outer is not limited to the man himself, but has a general effect upon others.  If, for instance, some one begins to yawn from fatigue in a group, others will soon follow his example, or if he is full of vivacity and happiness he will electrify
page 48
others around him.  These few illustrations point the clear fact that the world of the soul has independent existence; its effect is creative; it reverberates with the vibrations of joy and sorrow, pain and pleasure, friendship and estrangement.
Inasmuch as the soul has this inventive and creative power in the kingdom of imagination, how much more universal will be its scope if it is strengthened and buttressed by the spiritual forces of God.  Thus if the soul of man is reinforced by the divine powers and energies, not only his own body will be come a perfect example of health and radiation and joy, but he will radiate like the sun those rays of happiness to all who come in touch with him.
The Manifestations of God, the prophets of divinity, are those spiritual educators who have initiated a system of spiritual training based upon this law.  The benefit humanity will draw from this system will be commensurate with its application in daily life.
One branch of this system of spiritual education deals with the inculcation of ethics in the lives of men.  For example, in the soul of man there are certain tendencies or qualities:  one is fear, another courage, another rashness.  Now extremes in any direction mean disease and the Manifestations of God come to teach us that fear is evil, recklessness is unwise and that courage is the golden mean.  Also, we have a trinity of other tendencies; squandering as one pole and avarice the other.  One may be so avaricious that, as the Persian poets express it-the palm of his hand is as dry as the surface of [the] Sahara.  The spendthrift wastes money, while generosity again is the golden mean.  Also justice is the golden mean between tyranny and a lackadaisical acceptance of humiliation or adversity.  Contentment and chastity are two other characteristics that have their extremes.
These five qualities are the five golden rules of ethics.  These five pathways lead to a happy, contented life as revealed in the sacred books and taught by the Manifestations of God.  If we simply read them, kiss the sacred books as a sign of respect, place them on the shelf and forget them, this will do us no good at all.  Theories and words may have an effect upon the lives of men, but Bahá'u'lláh tells us that in the last analysis deeds are the criterion of right and wrong.  One may write a most inspiring book or give many lectures on these five qualities without any effect whatever, but if he arises and by his deeds manifests the quality of generosity, for example, by dispensing a portion of his fortune for the alleviation of suffering humanity, his action will have a great effect.  The Manifestation of God points to us the road and tells us this is the pathway.  If we walk in it, we shall reach a certain destination, but the walking must be done by ourselves; nobody will help us.
This fact is illustrated by the example of a man giving a banquet and preparing all kinds of dishes and when invited to eat, the guest replies:  "It is too much trouble-eat it for me."  We know the condition of such a man.  Those who have not heard about this system of spiritual education are not so much responsible for carrying it out in their lives, but those who affiliate with it and go under its banner are those among the rest of the world who should characterize themselves with its qualities and embody its principles in their lives.
During the last seventy years Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, through their lives and teachings, have trained and educated their followers to be ever watchful-not of others but themselves.
Now this moral training of the soul is one of the branches of spiritual education and we can never characterize ourselves with these golden qualities unless we begin at home with the self within us and try to control that self in order that we may be able to convey the same knowledge of triumph and victory to others.


XV:3, June 1924
page 64
Progress only through spiritual power
A compilation from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 65
It is impossible that 'economic contentment' be realized by the people of the world save through the transforming Power of Faith.  For Faith is the solver of every problem.  Therefore you must strive to strengthen the foundation of the Religion of God.  Through the Power of the Religion of God every difficulty will be disentangled.  The Power of the Religion of God will humble the kings and set at naught the crooked motives of those who are in supreme authority.  Then endeavour ye that the Power of True Religion which breathes the Spirit of Life into the dead body of the world of humanity may be promulgated.  This is the antidote for the poisoned body of the world and a quick healing remedy for the rancorous disease of man.


XV:3, June 1924
page 67
'Abdu'l-Bahá
It is evident that the time has come to end war and establish peace.  This is an exigency and requirement of the present century.


XV:3, June 1924
page 73
The life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Part I
Jináb-i-Fádil
The life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is very significant among the lives of the past heavenly educators.  If we study the history of the former manifestations of God we realize that the first portion of their lives has been free from anxiety and persecution, while the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from the day of his birth has been one of vicissitude, trial and painful ordeals.
Moreover, the enemies and foes of 'Abdu'l-Bahá never ceased to plan and scheme to persecute and bring about his exile and banishment, and to annihilate his revelation.  And these people had more general power than the enemies of the former prophets.
One of the Divine Allegorical incidents was that 'Abdu'l-Bahá was born in Tihrán the same night upon which the Báb proclaimed his mission in Shíráz that is, 23 May 1844.  Bahá'u'lláh gave the name of his father to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This name was 'Abbás but he always called him Master-Áqá-even when he was a little child.
The first few years of the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá were spent amid the most tragic and dramatic events of the life of Bahá'u'lláh.  He was the centre of the movement, every tragic event revolved around him and his home was the rendezvous of all the Bahá'ís.  All the news and all that transpired in the Cause was brought to him.
His home was well known as the head quarters of the Movement and often groups of rowdies would throw stones and try to hurt the inmates.  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá was a little child groups of urchins would surround him and try to stone him.  Even at the early age of eight or nine years 'Abdu'l-Bahá had ready witnessed the plotting of the enemies and had seen the friends martyred and guillotined.  Up to this age he had seen many headstones of heroes and heroines who had gone to their death with radiant acquiescence.
Most of the time Bahá'u'lláh was absent from home travelling in the interest of the Cause, and visiting the friends in prison.  His property was confiscated and both day and night his household was in danger, so there was no opportunity for 'Abdu'l-Bahá to go to school and learn the things which other children have to learn.
Nevertheless such deep and abiding attachment, such tender regard, solicitude and affection existed and was evidenced between 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Bahá'u'lláh that even in those early days some members felt deeply that 'Abdu'l-Bahá would eventually unfold, develop and explain the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.
While Bahá'u'lláh was going about or in prison, at a tender age 'Abdu'l-Bahá was the object of regard and reverence of his family; all looked up to him as the head of the family in spite of his youth.
At the age of nine the great exile began.  The government banished Bahá'u'lláh with his family in 1852 to the city of Baghdád.  During a long cold part of the journey 'Abdu'l-Bahá was so thinly clad that his toes were frozen twice and the effect was felt by him all the days of his life.  Often when he was tired out during the hours of day or night his feet would itch and ache.
During the twelve years of Bahá'u'lláh in Baghdád and Sulamáníyyih of Kurdistán and the cave of the Mount of Sar-Galú where he went into retirement for the purpose of uninterrupted communion with God, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was the cause of happiness to his family as well as its hope.
In that period of time when 'Abdu'l-Bahá was between the age of nine and
page 74
twenty he associated with many theologians mystical and philosophical groups.  He opened the treasures of his innate knowledge among them, he entered into those deep subjects and elucidated them in such a clear manner that they marvelled at his unlimited fund of information and asked him from what source he had received it.  He answered them in these symbolical words:  "I received them from my Father."  Therefore, they titled Him-"Eminent Wise Youth."
The physical general appearance of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was very pleasing.  His face and form were beautifully proportioned and he was considered a very handsome youth.  He radiated a heavenly spiritual power and carried himself with kingly dignity.  As he walked along the streets people admired his carriage and physique, he had such strength and power in his bearing.  One of the qualities of the character of 'Abdu'l-Bahá even when he was a youth was his great spiritual fortitude.  He had innate poise and balance which no vicissitude could destroy; no one had ever seen him angry and he was never moved or swerved by any outside influence.  His physical endurance astonished everyone.  He seemed like a great ocean without a ripple on its surface.
Another characteristic of 'Abdu'l-Bahá worthy of emulation was His extreme generosity.  In this loving kindness he gave freely of everything he had.  It is related that in the home of Bahá'u'lláh there was a beautiful rug upon which he used to sit.  One day a poor Arab brought a load of wood to the house.  He saw the rug and was very much attracted by its beauty.  He handled it caressingly and exclaimed:  "Oh, how wonderful it must be to have such a splendid rug to sit upon!"  'Abdu'l-Bahá heard him and said:  "If you like the rug, take it."  The man would not believe it was really a gift, but for fear he would lose it, he put it over his shoulder and began to run, looking back every few minutes to see if anyone was coming to take it away from him.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "Go on, no one is going to take it away from you."  'Abdu'l-Bahá had a wonderful sense of humour.
When he was but a child he was taken to the mountains to see his father's sheep.  There were thousands of them; the shepherds gave him a feast.  At the end of the day the chief shepherd came to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and told him he must make a present to the shepherds.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "I have nothing."-the man said, "But you must give something."-So 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "What about the sheep?"-and he gave them all the sheep.  When Bahá'u'lláh heard this he laughed and said, "We will have to protect 'Abdu'l-Bahá from himself some day he will give himself away."
Another characteristic of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was his sociability, courtesy and politeness shown to all degrees of society.  He associated with the highest officials, and with people of all ranks, giving them his divine knowledge and thereby raising them to a higher level of comprehension.  Likewise he went among the most lowly in the same attitude.
In the East people spend years and years of their time trying to perfect themselves in penmanship.  It is considered an art of the highest order and a man will spend twenty to fifty years teaching people this calling.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's penmanship was so beautiful and so perfectly in accordance with all the sacred writings of the East that samples of his work were used to copy from.  His knowledge of the Arabian and Persian writing was so great that it seemed a miracle to the people though he never studied in his life.
His range of vision was miraculous, and when talking to Arabs they felt the utmost reverence for him.  With philosophers and learned men he carried on conversation which astonished them.  Without previous study on any of these subjects he could understand and converse and raise the thought for them to
page 75
a much higher level than they themselves were able to reach.
When Bahá'u'lláh was sent forth to his second exile with his family and followers for four months and had to travel through the most inhospitable desert and villages in Mesopotamia, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was constantly protecting and helping him.
During the exile of Bahá'u'lláh and his family for four months in Constantinople and five years in Adrianople, the spiritual attraction of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his association with many important people was manifested more and more, and won them to him in such a manner that they tried to remove the difficulty of Bahá'u'lláh and help him.  For example, the Turkish Governor of Adrianople be came so intensely interested that he spent days and nights listening to his conversations.  When the order came for the next exile he was unable to give it in person as he was too much affected by sorrow at parting and was obliged to send the summons by letter.
When Bahá'u'lláh and a group of his followers were exiled to 'Akká and were imprisoned in the barracks, as a result of the terrible climate of the city and the loss of nourishing food, the very unhealthy water and abominable conditions of the prison, they were all sick, and some of his followers were relieved by death.  Through these dire conditions 'Abdu'l-Bahá was untouched by disease and continually ministered to the needs of the afflicted ones, giving them necessary remedies and cooking their food with his own hands.  Thus through his protecting ministrations they all recovered.
After these two years of the terrible imprisonment of Bahá'u'lláh in which no one of his followers was permitted to enter that city to visit him, and the nine years following when Bahá'u'lláh was confined to one little house in 'Akká, through the instrumentality of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his association with eminent people Bahá'u'lláh was finally, at the end of eleven long years of imprisonment and hardship, permitted to leave the dreadful city of 'Akká and go to a large comfortable house called the Mansion of Bahjí which had beautiful gardens that were brought into existence by the efforts of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  In this beautiful place Bahá'u'lláh spent the rest of his days, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá remained in 'Akká with his family, meeting everyone, attending to the solution of problems, interviewing statesmen, governors, lawyers, etc., in regard to different cases.  To him all people came for the solution of their difficulties.
'Abdu'l-Bahá protected the Cause from all objections and opposition.  Thus Bahá'u'lláh was left free and unhampered to prepare his message for the world and his followers were now able to visit him.  One day of each week of his extremely busy life 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to visit Bahá'u'lláh at Bahjí.  On these occasions he always walked, thereby showing his attitude of humility awards his father.  But after Bahá'u'lláh told him that he must ride, he obeyed him.  He would leave the city of 'Akká riding, but when the Mansion of Bahjí came into view he would dismount and walk.  On the other hand, upon the recognized days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visits to Bahjí, Bahá'u'lláh would watch for his coming from a second story window, and as soon as he saw him approaching he would call to his household saying, "The Master is coming, go and meet him!"  No sooner would father and son meet than one would witness the utmost humility of the son and utmost love and devotion of the father, making the most dramatic picture conceivable.  At these times no one was permitted to enter during their conversation, not even the family.  No one could understand this mystery between son and father.  It makes one recall the words of the Bible where it is declared, "The Father is in the Son and the Son is in the Father."  There has never been in the world a relationship so sweet and perfect, with so much
page 76
trust and confidence on both sides.  In every way 'Abdu'l-Bahá was the prototype of Bahá'u'lláh.  They were the same height, their voices were alike, and their manner of discerning.
These were enough to make clear that the glory of God was shining in him, and would continue to shine in him after the ascension of his father.  Yet Bahá'u'lláh wrote in almost all of his writings, clearly as well as symbolically, of his station.  In the "Tablet of Beirut" he calls him the "Mystery of God".  Particularly, in the most Holy Book he said emphatically that the people must turn their faces towards 'Abdu'l-Bahá who was the Branch of the everlasting tree.  He also declared that 'Abdu'l-Bahá held the keys that would open the Holy Tablets and Holy Books.  Finally, he proclaimed the station of the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in the Tablet of the Covenant, which he sealed and gave 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  In nine days after the ascension of Bahá'u'lláh, in 1892, the seal was broken by 'Abdu'l-Bahá amid the group of Bahá'í friends and it was read by them.
Thus 'Abdu'l-Bahá ascended the throne of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh and the glory of his father began to shine through him, to guide, like a shepherd the children of men to the oneness of God and the brotherhood of man.
Verily, it seemed that Bahá'u'lláh had not departed but his sovereignty was still living in the garment of servitude.  The pen of 'Abdu'l-Bahá began to move for all the world, spreading the breath of life in the utmost humility and kindness as did the pen of Bahá'u'lláh in the form of lordship and command.
Now at this time 'Abdu'l-Bahá, with his great executive power, began to establish the Cause of God in the hearts of humanity.  He sent more teachers and workers to different parts of the globe, and a new life was manifested among the friends.  Thousands of epistles, perfect jewels of wisdom and knowledge concerning the affairs of life and about religion and divine philosophy, were revealed by him to the world.
All these activities increased the envy of the enemies of the Cause.  They had thought that at the passing of Bahá'u'lláh everything would come to an end.  Now, however, witnessing the renewed power and strength in 'Abdu'l-Bahá they increased in activity and numbers, and a new group whose jealousy had lain dormant in Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime now arose against 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Those who merely met him visiting the prisons, entertaining the governor, officials and other guests, and who saw the increasing number of pilgrims from different countries, would hardly suspect that enemies of the Cause existed; for though their persecution continued day after day for years.  'Abdu'l-Bahá tried to lead his enemies and those envious of him with the utmost kindness into the path of unity and service.  But their envy was too great, and they paid no heed to his advice, opposing him more and more, till at last 'Abdu'l-Bahá left 'Akká and his family and went alone to Tiberius and to Elijah's cave in Mount Carmel, there to supplicate and commune with God.
Humanity always rejects its educators, choosing to follow personal desires, even distorting religious teaching into an excuse for disobedience, and those who are regarded as foremost in religious matters are dominated by their pride to deny a Saviour.  Nearness to God and His Manifestation is a spiritual union, not a physical relationship.  A spiritual soul, however remotely situated from a manifestation, can nevertheless be more closely attached to that Manifestation than anyone related only by ties of blood.  The foremost followers of a religious teaching are like mirrors before a sun, but as their light is reflected and not self created, should they turn from the sun their light will cease to shine.  Thus, Bahá'u'lláh said, a spiritual educator is a divine balance, and the people of the world are weighed by him.
page 77
The efforts of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's enemies were known only to those few who were intimately close to him.
In spite of the fact that 'Abdu'l-Bahá refrained for the time being from teaching the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh on account of official prejudice against it, the people through his counsel and guidance began to recognize his great station.  'Abdu'l-Bahá worked with such ease, assurance and poise that he gave confidence to all who visited him.  The doors of his house were never closed; they renamed open from sunrise to sunset.  All manner of people came to him to adjust their problems.  Men and women poured constantly in and out of the house, for 'Abdu'l-Bahá was always ready to up lift and counsel the downtrodden.
Different religions leaders and government officials came to him to present their questions.  Even the Arab Bedouins and their shaykhs had the greatest devotion and respect for him, journeying great distances to see him.  They regarded him as a holy patriarch and received from him gifts, both spiritual and material.  Such was his influence that his simple word was willingly obeyed by them when often governmental authority failed.
The fame of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's generosity and love became such a protection that frequently visitors travelling through the desert to him were not only free from Bedouin attacks, but were also accorded safe conduct.
His simplicity of life forbade his personal use of the costly gifts pressed upon him by his friends in many countries, and he preferred to pass on these offerings to people in need.
A wonderful sight at 'Akká was to be seen every Friday morning before the house of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From early morning, the square would be crowded with the poor, the aged, and cripples, men, women and children.  'Abdu'l-Bahá would come out with some of his friends, and the people would crowd round him, yet reverently, like children round a father.  He would move from one to another, speaking kindly advice and comfort and putting money into their hands.  He was especially kind to widows and their children.
It was indeed a miracle that a prisoner, persecuted and faced with opposed from so many powerful authorities, could thus gain such influence over all kinds of people with spiritual weapons only.  As long as 'Abdu'l-Bahá lived the people felt perfect confidence in the future no matter what happened.  They felt he was a divine father to whom they could go at all times, a master to whom they could turn at any moment.  He continually ministered to their sufferings, often choosing to go on his errands of love at night.
But all the time his enemies had been watching their opportunity to vent their jealousy.  They secretly sent many false reports to the Government in Constantinople, and circulated forged letters purporting to have been issued by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Each time the governor or other officials of the prison city were changed, they would bribe them to unite with them in their opposition to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  However, although disheartened by these continuous intrigues, 'Abdu'l-Bahá's power rose supreme above such hatred and won over those officials whom his enemies had persuaded to oppose him.
During this time of persecution, surrounded by spies and enemies, 'Abdu'l-Bahá accomplished the difficult task of having the remains of the Báb brought from Persia to Haifa.  He had constructed the shrine on Mount Carmel which was to be the resting place of the body of the Báb.  This edifice was made the subject of a new attack.  With the co-operation of a few of the prison officials 'Abdu'l-Bahá's opponents sent false information to the Government that he was building a fortress on Mount Carmel and had so much influence with surrounding and foreign powers that the Turkish Government would not be able to withstand his power.  This false re-
page 78
port caused the Sultán such alarm that he ordered 'Abdu'l-Bahá to be either drowned or exiled to the heart of the African desert.
His friends, anxious for his safety, begged him to leave 'Akká; but saying that it was his duty to stay, he sent them away to different places in Egypt, and disregarding all threats, remained with certain members of his family in 'Akká.
When the Governmental Investigation Committee arrived in 'Akká the enemies of 'Abdu'l-Bahá associated with them to induce them to make a false report.  Accordingly, without visiting 'Abdu'l-Bahá or finding out his version, information was sent that the rumours were true.  While these plots were progressing and the atmosphere was tingling with suspicion, every one was amazed to see that 'Abdu'l-Bahá was planting trees and building a house as though nothing would happen.
When the judge sent for 'Abdu'l-Bahá to present himself in court the sorrow of the friends was unbearable.  They feared he might be taken away immediately and they would never see him again.  However, 'Abdu'l-Bahá reassured them, saying that his greatest joy and happiness would be to be hanged there in Haifa.  Bahá'u'lláh had a wonderful felt cap or headdress which was called a crown and this had been treasured by 'Abdu'l-Bahá after the ascension of the Blessed Perfection.  Several times the friends had suggested that 'Abdu'l-Bahá should wear this but he always replied, "There would be but one occasion to wear it-if I were to be crucified."  At this time he asked the family to have the headdress ready.
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered the court he found the charges and false testimony prearranged.  After admonishing his accusers for persecuting the Cause of Truth as had always been done in former ages he said, "If you desire to condemn me, I am ready and willing to sacrifice my life and will sign any indictment you prepare, for it will bring me great happiness to be martyred as were the promulgators of Truth before me."
Just at this darkest hour, when events were most ominous for 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the Cause, the whole situation changed with a miraculous suddenness.  The revolution of 1908, by the Young Turk Party, brought entire freedom to him who had been the world's Greatest Prisoner.


XV:3, June 1924
page 81
Impressions of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Shahnáz Waite
When I first saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá I was alone and I came face to face with him all unexpectedly.  He stood not over four feet from me.  It was in the upper court of his prison home in 'Akká, with the blue sky overhead and the sun light shining down brightly upon him, the hour being but a little past "high noon".  I might have thought him a member of his family, but every atom of my being, my heart and soul cried out-"This is He."  The face of my dreams of him stood before me with that heavenly smile of welcome.  The Light of Infinite Love was radiating from his countenance.  Majestic, and yet sublimely tender, he was looking right into my eyes.  I gave a start as if I had suddenly been plunged into an ocean of Light, then stood transfixed.  It seemed as if I had come upon him unawares and saw the Glory of the Lord shining forth around him; and I know I must have felt as did Mary Magdalene when Christ revealed Himself to her in her vision after the crucifixion "The Risen Lord".  He was dressed all in white.  His hair fell in soft waves about his shoulders and his head was crowned with a white turban bound around with a white cloth.  His step was firm and kingly.  I walked toward him and as I stood and looked up into those marvellous eyes, I knew that every thought, every act of my life was known to him.  Yet knowing this, I could fearlessly, unwaveringly meet his gaze, realizing all my sins and weaknesses, yet knowing he understood me as I could never understand myself and that he was indeed Infinite Love Incarnate.  Later he came to greet us in Dr. Moody's room and I was fully confirmed-this was truly 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but a very different one I felt from the one I had first seen.  As he firmly grasped my hand with that welcoming pressure that comes deep from the heart, a hand shake that warms you through and through, I saw the divinely human man, the personification of my highest ideals of an earthly father.
In height, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was in reality but medium, yet he held himself so superbly, with such commanding dignity, and carried his head so high, and with such an air of majesty, that he ever gave the impression of great height.  His voice was wonderful, full and vibrant; each word was uttered with marked distinctness and with that tonal quality, which leaves a faint echo, as it were, or wave vibration such as comes from a beautifully toned bell.  All through the day it rang out, first in one place, then another; for with astonishing rapidity 'Abdu'l-Bahá seemed to be everywhere-now in the garden, now in the room close beside the entrance, now in a guest's room,-or you could hear him calling some one in the "family section" of the "prison home".  Always when I heard his voice, I felt its vibrations most deeply.  Like his face, his voice expressed every emotion, from tones that are stern and emphatic to those as tender and loving as a cooing dove's.
His eyes defied description.  I only know that to me they seemed grey with a circle of white around the iris which at times became luminous.  Sometimes in the light I caught a shade of blue, and again by lamplight they seemed brown; ever changing were they and wonderful.  Like his face and his voice, they too expressed every emotion felt by him.
I was deeply impressed by His naturalness, his lack of conventionality and set form, and his refreshing simplicity.  Divinely simple and simply Divine was he.


XV:4, July 1924
page 93
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"If tremendous progress in a short time be desired by a people in any social reform, any undertaking for the good of humanity, they must lay hold of the Spiritual Potency.  Then will their advancement appear phenomenal, their success magical.  This spiritual potency will enable the worker to keep before the eye of the mind the picture of the divine civilization that kingdom for the coming of which we have been praying for nigh two thousand years."


XV:4, July 1924
page 107
The Golden Rule
"All things therefore whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, even so do ye unto them; for this is the law of the prophets."
The Golden Rule may be well said to have existed always and to be a part of all religions.  It is practically certain that no land which had at any time laid claim to a more or less true form of civilization has omitted some phrasing of this basic ethical teaching from its moral or civil philosophy.
In the oldest book in the world, the instructions of Ptah Hotep in Egypt five thousand five hundred years ago, 3,550 years before Christ, is found this instruction:  "If thou be among people make for thyself love the beginning and end of the heart."  Sixteen hundred years before the birth of Jesus, there ran an Egyptian "vale" to the dead:  "He sought for others the good he desired for himself.  Let him pass on."  Again before Christ-3,400 years-when the Hindu Kingdoms were being established along the Ganges, it was written:  "The true rule of business is to guard and do by the things of others as they do by their own."
Twenty-five hundred years ago, 600 years before Christ and 150 before Plato, Laotze wrote in China:  "Re-quite injury with kindness."  "To the not good I would be good in order to make them good."  Confucius advised:  "What you would not wish done to yourself, do not unto others."
The books and scrolls of the Hebraic law taught this truth.  In a time-stained parchment believed to have been first inscribed some 2,500 years ago, is to be read:  "Whatsoever you do not wish your neighbour to do to you, do not that to him."  And to strength en this, the teachers of 600 BC added immediately:  "This is the whole Law.  The rest is mere exposition of it."  And in the Law of Moses it is written:  "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself."
The Greeks in 1070 BC came yet nearer the wording of Jesus with:  "Do not that to thy neighbour which thee would take ill from him."
At the first Buddhist Council held at Rajagriha in 477 BC the scribes almost duplicated the advice of Egypt's priests, writing:  "One should seek for others the happiness one desires for oneself."
When Alexander of Macedon marched into Persia in 334 BC he found there before him the most usual of all these closely paralleled formulae:  "Do as you would be done by"-ran the Zoroastrian precept.
A century and a half before Christ the Law of Rome once more repeated the theme:  "The law imprinted on the hearts of all men is to love the members of society as themselves."
And Christ Himself declared that the Golden Rule "is the law and the prophets."
Again Muhammad gave yet another expression to it, for the Qur'án instructs:  "Let none of you treat his brother in a way he himself would dislike to be treated."
Finally in this day is added still another instruction in the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh-"O son of man!  If thine eyes be turned towards mercy, forsake the things that profit thee, and cleave unto that which will profit mankind.  And if thine eyes be turned towards justice, choose thou for thy neighbour that which thou choosest for thyself."1


XV:4, July 1924
page 108
The life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Part II
Jináb-i-Fádil
When the successful efforts of the young reformers of Turkey abolished the unjust prisons of a despotic monarch, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went forth from the dark stronghold of 'Akká into the light and freedom of Haifa and Mount Carmel.  Here for eleven months after the stifling atmosphere of 'Akká which had seriously affected his health, he breathed the pure air of the Mountain of God and passed his time in spreading the divine teachings.  He was like a bird which had become free from the cage; and one day, without informing any one, he took ship and arrived at Port Said in Egypt, which was his first journey of freedom after the long years of exile and imprisonment.
'Abdu'l-Bahá possessed a great love for the beauty of nature, which is a mirror of the beauty of God, and he was extremely happy in the pure atmosphere of Egypt with its tropical trees and flowers.  This was indeed a period of rejoicing when eager Bahá'ís from different nations, of every race and colour, gathered round him with love and unity, hearing his deep teaching and happy with his happiness.
Although at the beginning of his stay in Egypt through false traditions the religious prejudice of the people was aroused against 'Abdu'l-Bahá and some of the newspapers printed incendiary articles against the Cause, before very long many theological groups, editors, and other prominent people, in their visits to him, became satisfied from the river of his knowledge and wisdom.  They were attracted by the great power of his love; and realizing the necessity of the Bahá'í teachings in this miraculous age, opened their lips in praise and thanks to him.
During the morning hours at this time the news-vendors would bring the papers containing incendiary articles to the place where many Bahá'í visitors were residing, and some of the friends desired to make reply to them.  On one occasion the friends brought the papers to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, expressing this wish.  However, he said:  "These are the heralds of the Kingdom.  God is using them to inform the people of our arrival.  Let them write anything they like.  They will come to investigate, realize the truth and themselves make answer."  And after a few days this came to pass.
During those eleven months the name of the Bahá'í Cause and the greatness of 'Abdu'l-Bahá became more and more apparent and many souls were satisfied through drinking the pure teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Although his journey to Egypt caused many of the Persian believers to beseech him to visit Persia since many thousands of them had been unable to meet him while at 'Akká, the religious prejudice of that land prevented him.  His sojourn in Egypt also made his occidental friends eager to have him in their free country where his teachings might be heard without restraint.  As their visits to 'Akká had been accomplished through many difficulties his friends of Europe and America wrote 'Abdu'l-Bahá many imploring letters urging his presence in their midst and these urgent appeals finally brought about the journey of this majestic spiritual teacher to the land of freedom in the west.
The year 1911 marked the journey of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the western world.  After spending some months in Europe, he returned to Egypt.  The following year, in 1912, his longest and last journey began.  He spread his wings and soared to the United States and Canada
page 109
and later to England, Germany, Hungary, and France.
During this year of travel some of the friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá were anxious for him to take passage on the steamship "Titanic", but he declined and afterward his wisdom became apparent when this great vessel sank in the depths of the sea.
His western journey consumed al most two years during which time he spoke in many different churches, synagogues, universities and various societies, spreading the teachings of this Cause-the principles of the oneness of the world of humanity and the organization of the world under the banner of universal justice and love.  He declared that the world of humanity is entering a new cycle and the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh is its spirit and its light.  His effective call was reflected in many magazines and newspapers of Europe and America and resounded in the ears of the whole world, especially throughout the west.  The scholars and thinkers who visited him were attracted to his unique personality and many of them said they had been longing to meet and know such a being-a mirror of the teachings of all the prophets, picturing the real life of the spirit.
Undoubtedly the journey of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the West was in reality a journey to all the world, a unique historical journey, and we shall see in due time that the thought of the entire world was transformed.  'Abdu'l-Bahá planted in the atmosphere the seed of spiritual understanding and of reconciliation among the races and nations, the result of which will accomplish the unity of the world.  In the Bahá'í world this journey created an irresistible motion which will increase age after age.
Also in his journey to Europe and America the purpose of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was to warn the people of the coming of the world war and he explained the prophecies of Bahá'u'lláh revealed forty years before referring thereto.  In his various lectures he declared that a great war was impending and the rulers of the nations, the men of power and authority, were under great responsibility.  He called them to extinguish the fire of this on-rushing conflagration through the means of an International Court of World Parliament.  Although many could not believe at that time the seriousness of his warning he assured them of the imminent danger.  After his return to the East from this journey, he said in many large groups:  "We crossed oceans and seas and knocked at the door of Europe and America warning them of the great calamity, but they were in such deep slumber they could not be awakened."
In 1913 he returned to Egypt and to Haifa where many oriental Bahá'ís of different religions and nations who were most eager to visit him welcomed him and gathered in his presence like moths around the candle of love.  Afterward, when the great war began and the door to Palestine was closed, when famine and difficulty arose, the heads of many families being killed and others cast into political prisons among the Jews, Muslims and Christians in these tragic conditions the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá became the door of hope for all the afflicted people.  He protected them and helped them like a kind father and the people were filled with hope and happiness because he was living in their midst.
Although after his return from the West to Palestine some of the jealous objectors opened a new door of opposition and sought to cause some of the Turkish generals to oppose 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the general situation had become different; and especially after the war the tree of the freedom of religious thought, which is one of the great principles of Bahá'u'lláh, had spread its shadow in that land.  The opposition was without effect and the light of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was reflected without veils to the entire world.
When Bahá'u'lláh departed this life in 1892 the Cause had not been spread
page 110
in the west but from the time Bahá'u'lláh left this world to the year 1903 when the Constitution was declared in Turkey 'Abdu'l-Bahá passed through the most dramatic period of his life, due to the opposition of his enemies, and during this same time, through his divine power, he promulgated the Cause in Europe and America.  The boundaries of the movement were extended, the number of the believers was increased and the influence of the Cause was felt more and more.  Thinkers in every country began to investigate the movement so that during those sixteen years the history of the Cause is replete with many dramatic events.
The vision, revelation and might of 'Abdu'l-Bahá were so divine that long before the Cause was established in western countries he had issued a request to the friends in Persia teach children English, and amidst all the trials and vicissitudes of 'Akká and Haifa be established a school wherein the younger Bahá'í generation might have contact with occidental education, knowing well that the time would come when they would have to act as interpreters or teachers in promulgating the Cause.
The last years of the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá were passed in Haifa where, like a perfect gardener, he protected and trained the garden of the Bahá'í Cause, until the 28 November 1922, when be ascended from the sunset of his home to the highest world.  This was indeed the midnight of grief and sorrow for his family and the Bahá'ís of Haifa and 'Akká as well as the surrounding region.  No one was able to sleep; the grief of even the little children was uncontrollable.  The sounds of weeping and lamentation resounded around the great home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and many other homes throughout the whole night until morning.
When the news of this grievous calumny reached the outside world through cable the body of the Bahá'í Cause in all the globe was shaken and its blood congealed.  It was realized that not only the great Trainer of souls had passed, but the kind Father of the entire world.  The wonder of this most great bereavement was the fact that so many outside the Cause joined with the Bahá'ís in their sorrow.  The following day when the blessed remains were conveyed to the top of Mount Carmel to be entombed in the resting place of the Báb, which 'Abdu'l-Bahá had prepared for himself also, from the Governor of Palestine and other dignitaries, leaders of various religions, poets and distinguished men to the poorest widow and orphan of Haifa-all joined in lamentation for the loss of this heavenly bounty.  The entire population of the city joined in the long procession wending its way up the slope of Mount Carmel.
'Abdu'l-Bahá was seventy-seven years old at the time of his ascension and during his varied life of exile and imprisonment had known unthinkable suffering and hardship.  Through despotic power, through the prejudice and jealousy of religious ignorance, he had contended with unimaginable opposition from every side, both to himself and his teaching.  In reality, the power of the Spirit protected his body so that all his years were passed in the promotion and administration of this Cause.  Not for one moment was his thought free from his great purpose and not a single moment of his life was lost.  Such a great work of brain could not be sustained except by such a powerful spirit.  Let us clearly realize this point; if the immense volume of his personal and general Tablets, which were spread throughout the East and the West, were divided among the hours of his life we should see how great was his capacity.  The work accomplished was of far greater magnitude than his years signify.  The spiritual duties which he had performed and his sacrifices for the sake of his teachings were beyond imagination.  In the last hours of his life he was like one having fully accomplished his task and about to take a journey.
page 111
Therefore almost suddenly, with but slight illness, he ascended from this world to the world of immortality.  He called himself "'Abdu'l-Bahá" and in his life he was 'Abdu'l-Bahá because all his thought and speech was of Bahá'u'lláh in explaining and spreading his blessed teaching.  One could see in him only the embodiment of the Bahá'í Teaching.  In reality, it was a divine necessity that Bahá'u'lláh should have such a Servant and that this great being should sacrifice himself for such a Glorious Light, to be an example for all the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá accomplished his spiritual work and spread completely the teaching of Bahá'u'lláh, even his objectors and jealous adversaries gradually coming to accept and obey him, through the following great powers:
First, the power of his pen, whose comprehensive and effective eloquence and sweetness were such that no one could resist.  Each one of the friends to whom a Tablet was addressed realized that it was written to him alone and was like a book of counsel for his especial life.
Second, the power of divination by which 'Abdu'l-Bahá knew each soul better than the soul knew himself.  Also in reading letters he possessed this power, and he said "My heavenly Father gave to me a power by which I may know from the written word the spirit of every soul."
Third, the power of love and forgiveness which was so great in 'Abdu'l-Bahá that when his enemies saw the practical evidences of his love they thought he could not know their opposition.  It was often declared that he loved his enemies more than his friends and on one occasion when one of the friends was telling him about someone whom he was helping very much who was his enemy even to the extent of seeking his life, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "I know him very well but he is sincere.  I love a sincere man even my enemy.  His opposition is from ignorance and after a while he will realize and repent."  On another occasion he said to one of his visitors:  "You come to Haifa where the atmosphere is pure.  This is the fountainhead of the river and the water is pure.  Here there is nothing but love and purity.  God created me for love to all his children without exception, even my enemies."
Fourth, his generosity that was so great as to suggest an absence of the sense of worldly value.  The precious gifts brought him from different parts of the world for his own personal use would later be found in the possession of others.  Every one received from the hand of 'Abdu'l-Bahá some gift, while at the same time his family lived in the utmost simplicity.
Fifth, his fearlessness.  At a time when he was most strongly opposed by government and populace he would walk and speak among the people with such power as though an army were stationed behind him.  His confidence in his spiritual connection with God, his severance and spirit of sacrifice were above the power of imagination.
Sixth, his wisdom and administrative capacity that suggested always the ability to administer the affairs of the whole world.  He gave to each soul high or low, rich or poor, in the east or in the west, whatever was in accordance with the spiritual necessity.  His power was manifested to each soul according to the degree of capacity.
Seventh, his spiritual knowledge through which 'Abdu'l-Bahá possessed the power to open all the sacred books and the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.
Eighth, his power of explanation and teaching the Cause in such a logical, scientific and reasonable way as to reflect completely the spirit of this age.
Ninth, the invisible confirmation that was with him every moment of his life like the Shadow of God behind him.  If every detail of his life could be seen with the telescope of deep intelligence it would reveal what a great, invisible Power and Will assisted him constantly.


XV:5, August 1924
page 129
Music
its material and spiritual significance
Compiled by Shahnáz Waite
"We, verily, have made music as a ladder for your souls, a means whereby they may be lifted up unto the realm on high; make it not, therefore, as wings to self and passion."1
Truly it is said, "Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life."  Let me hear the music and songs of a nation and I will tell you the nature and characteristics of its people.  Andrew Fletcher once said, "Give me the making of the songs of a nation and I care not who makes its laws."  Another has written, "Music is allied to the highest sentiments of man's moral nature love of God, love of country, love of home and love of friends.  Woe to that nation in which these sentiments are allowed to decay."
Ever 'Abdu'l-Bahá is calling us to love and unity, to divine harmony, which is the true Song of Life.  Let me quote from Mr MacNutt's talk on this subject:  "Throughout all of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's words there was shining one fixed eternal principle.  As a great composer constructs a composition in a certain key-the key of F for instance-commencing his symphony in this key, then enlarging and opening his phrases and developing his subject into other keys, but always coming back to the primal key and finishing his melody in it, showing the consistency, the roundness and wholeness of his conception, so 'Abdu'l-Bahá revealed to us the Spiritual Symphony of true Religion, setting forth all his teachings in the eternal living key of Love; enlarging and developing His theme into different subjects, disclosing exquisite blendings, but always coming back to the primal theme, back to the great Spiritual Motive of the Symphony, the Love of God, the motive which controls the universe, the motive around which the universe is constructed, the great Principle of Love."
In the final analysis of all things, physically mentally and spiritually, we are brought face to face with the great truth that Life is Love, and Love is Life, and its audible Voice is Music.
__________
"Music is one of the important arts.  It has great effect upon human spirit.  Musical melodies are a certain something which prove to be accidental upon etheric vibrations, for voice is nothing but the expression of vibrations, which reaching the tympanum, effect the nerves of hearing.  Musical melodies are, therefore, those peculiar effects produced by, or from, vibration.  However, they have the keenest effect upon the spirit.  In sooth, although music is a material affair, yet its tremendous effect is spiritual, and its greatest attachment is to the realm of the spirit.  If a person desires to deliver a discourse, it will prove more effectual after musical melodies.  The ancient Greeks, as well as Persian philosophers, were in the habit of delivering their discourses in the following manner:  first, playing a few musical melodies, and when their audience attained a certain receptivity thereby they would leave their instruments at once and begin their discourse.  Among the most renowned musicians of Persia was one named Barbod, who, whenever a great question had been pleaded for at the court of the King, and the Ministry had failed to persuade the King, they would at once refer the matter to Barbod, whereupon he would go with
Page 130
his instrument to the court and play the most appropriate and touching music, the end being at once attained because the king was immediately affected by the touching musical melodies, certain feelings of generosity would swell up in his heart, and he would give way.  You may try this:  if you have a great desire and wish to attain your end, try to do so on a large audience after a great solo has been rendered, but it must be on an audience on which music is effective, for there are some people who are like stones, and music cannot affect stones."1
"Music is an important means to the education and development of humanity, but the only true way is through the Teachings of God.  Music is like this glass which is perfectly pure and polished.  It is precisely like this pure chalice before us, and the Teachings of God, the utterances of God are like the water.  When the glass or chalice is absolutely pure and clear and the water is perfectly fresh and limpid, then it will confer Life; wherefore the Teachings of God, whether they be in the form of anthems or communes or prayers, when they are melodiously sang, are most impressive."
"It was for this reason that His Holiness David sang the psalms in the Holy of Holies at Jerusalem with sweet melodies.  In this Cause the art of music is of paramount importance.  Bahá'u'lláh, when He first came to the barracks ('Akká) repeated this statement 'if among the immediate followers there had been those who could have played some musical instrument, i.e. flute or harp, or could have sung, it would have charmed every one.'  In short, musical melody forms an important role in the associations, or outward and inward characteristics, or qualities of man, for it is the inspirer or motive power of both the material and spiritual susceptibilities.  What a motive power it is in all feelings of love!  When man is attached to the Love of God, Music has a great effect upon him."2
In the notes of Mrs Mary L. Lucas, a soprano soloist, taken while on her visit to the Holy Land, she records her instructions from 'Abdu'l-Bahá in her book, A Brief Account of My Visit to Acca, from which the following is quoted:
"There was an utter absence of any desire or effort to impress one with 'Abdu'l-Bahá's greatness, which is majestic in its simplicity.  When we consider that he has never been enrolled in any school, has always been an exile and a prisoner, has had no access to books, that in spite of all this, his knowledge is unbounded, truly we must marvel!  An illustration of this is found in His answer to the musical question I put to Him.  I have all my life been interested in music, have studied in America and Europe, and when I asked the Master some special questions in regard to this subject, I was amazed in one sense at His familiarity with it.
"He has never heard any music such as we are accustomed to, having been a prisoner all his life, and yet his knowledge far exceeds that of people who have had great advantages.  This fact net only applies to music, but to all things.
"This was my question:  'I used to be very critical of people; would judge them; if they did not meet with my approval I would dislike them, but when I heard beautiful music all these feelings were forgotten, and the most intense love for these people, for animals, for the whole world, filled my heart and being.'
"I asked for an explanation of this, and I give you the answer.  The Master spoke one whole luncheon and dinner consecutively on this point, and has given us but a crumb of His great wisdom:
[Refer to The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II (Music), No. 1422, p. 78ff.]
Page 131
...
__________
"This wonderful age has rent asunder the veils of superstition and has condemned the prejudice of the people of the East.
"Among some of the nations of the Orient, music and harmony was not approved of, but the Manifested Light, Bahá'u'lláh, in this glorious period has revealed in Holy Tablets that singing and music are the spiritual food of the hearts and souls.  In this dispensation, music is one of the arts that is highly approved and is considered to be the cause of the exaltation of sad and desponding hearts."1
"Music is most important.  Music is the heart's own language.  Its vibrations uplift the spirit; it is very beautiful and a great art."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then looked away off out of the window, His face became illumined, and He said softly in English, "Music!  Music!"  As if the words brought forth divine melodies to His ears, as if He were listening to the 'Choir Invisible'.
__________
"Let us listen to a symphony which will confer life on man; then we can obtain universal results; then we shall receive a new spirit; then we shall become illumined.  Let us investigate a song which is above all songs; one which will develop the spirit and produce harmony and exhilaration, unfolding the inner potentialities of life."2


XV:5, August 1924
page 132
Impressions of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Hooper Harris
You write me that many of they friends are anxious to know my impressions of 'Akká and of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  How shall I write so as not to feed the fires of superstition on the one hand, or fail to do justice to the great ness of the subject on the other?  There are times when we find the symbols we call words entirely inadequate and when we know that, in spite of all effort to avoid it, we shall be misinterpreted and misunderstood.  There are some who, if we allow the heart to express itself freely, will accuse us of emotionalism and over-credulity; and there are others who, if we restrain the heart and write of facts as facts, setting them forth in their physical aspect only, will accuse us of lack of spiritual comprehension.  However, acknowledging responsibility to God alone, I shall endeavour to convey to all interested something of the impressions I received on my visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá at 'Akká.
I would to God that all the people of the world could have seen and known 'Abdu'l-Bahá as I saw and knew him!  Then, indeed, would war, strife and conflict cease, the fires of hell and hatred cease to burn, and peace and goodwill reign on earth.
However, if we write of 'Abdu'l-Bahá as a personality, as a man, we must describe him as the simplest and most humble and most natural man in all the world.  He indulged in no poses, made no pretensions, asserted no superiority, claimed no special privileges, and in no way whatever sought to impress one with his dignity and importance.  He ate with you, walked with you, talked with you, asked about your health, discussed the simplest matters with you and answered your most trivial questions.  In every sense of the word, he was natural; and in every sense of the word, simple.  The physical eye observed no halo, saw no sign of supernatural power, detected nothing in fact that might not be noticed in any really good, and naturally dignified man.  In a word 'Abdu'l-Bahá appeared to us so simple and so natural that we wondered what it was that some were able to see in him, who have set in circulation stories that have appealed powerfully to the imaginations of many and which may easily in time pass into records of signs, wonders and miracles.  We found it difficult at first to realize that this simple, dignified, kindly and lovable man was the centre of a spiritual power, of a knowledge and inspiration that was recreating the world, and was the object of a love and devotion that no man in the history of the world except Bahá'u'lláh, his father, ever received in his life time.
And this love and devotion was not confined to his followers, but was seen in those who knew nothing of the religion of which he was the centre.  We saw high Turkish officials, Turkish women of high rank, and people of all classes and conditions come to consult him on their most important matters, to seek consolation and advice from him in their domestic troubles, and to ask for his prayers.  Twice a week we saw the poor gathered around him to receive gifts at his hands, their only benefactor, their only real protector, in this prison city of squalor and wretchedness; we plainly saw, even with the physical eye, that there was something in this simple, unpretentious man which caused all around him to lean upon him in all things, and to regard him with an unusual love and devotion.  What was it in this man that conquered all who met him?  This man to whom all about him
page 133
went in their troubles, but who, himself, if he had any troubles, never mentioned them, except to rejoice over them as victories?  This man who was so universal that from him we never heard the word "I".
As I write these words tears fill my eyes and run down my cheeks.  I whose heart has often seemed to me like a stone; a man hard-headed and combative by nature; accustomed to indulging in plain speech, and, in argument, to giving and receiving blows; one who has never been regarded as sentimental or emotional; I, as I recall my impressions of this man, am obliged to confess that my heart melts like wax, that the tears blind my eyes, and that all desire for controversy and argument, except as God may will, has been taken out of me.  What, I repeat, was the strange power of this man, so simple, so natural, so unassuming who asked for himself no special consideration or reverence whatever, but who continually pointed us to the things of the Spirit and to God?
To tell this so as to make myself understood is beyond any power that God has given to me, or to any man.  There are some things that the heart can comprehend, but the tongue cannot utter.
In a Tablet to me, 'Abdu'l-Bahá once wrote, "Turn with thy heart to the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the hidden mystery will be revealed to thee."  I have obeyed this command, and the mystery has been revealed to me-but I cannot express it in words-not even he can do that.  The mystery, however, is no mystery at all to those who met 'Abdu'l-Bahá heart to heart.  Only through the Spirit can the reality and power of this Man be apprehended.  One is reminded of the Words of Jesus:  "No man cameth unto me except the Father draw him."
In spite of all I have said, however, I will try and give you an outer description of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He lived a life of imprisonment, of constant anxieties and of hardship, and when I saw him he looked his age, but no sign of physical weakness was apparent.  On the contrary, he impressed you as being full of strength and energy, an example of splendid manhood.  His hair and beard were grey, and the thoughtful lines on his face and forehead were in keeping with his years.  His beard was not very long nor full, but of silky, fine quality.  His hair, which was the same colour as the beard, he wore about level with the shoulders.  His nose was large, slightly aquiline and finely moulded.  His mouth was large and firm, but without in the slightest degree being hard, indicating a combination of firmness and kindness.  His forehead was high, broad, and full, giving the impression of great intellectual power.
The wonderful thing about the Master's physical personality was his eyes.  At this writing I must confess my inability to tell what it was about them that made them so remarkable.  Whether they were black or blue or grey, or a combination of colours, I cannot say.  In fact they seemed to change even as I looked at them and into them, as I did more than once.  Of this, however, I am quite certain-that I cannot think of 'Abdu'l-Bahá nor pray without seeing those indescribable eyes.
However, one tires of physicalities.  The important matter is to try to realize the fragrances of the Spirit that were wafted from that White Spot ('Akká) and from that pure heart.  Truly, there was that at 'Akká which was not to be seen with the physical eye, heard with the physical ear, or understood with the intellect-a something that the heart felt and the soul alone apprehended and which cannot be reduced to the physical symbols we call words.
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke, a something was set in vibration over and above the physical words, a something which was spirit and life and which bestowed spirit and life; and it would seem that the outer words were merely a means of contact or a physical medium of connection between the soul and this Spirit and Life that was imparted to the soul.  That which the soul received from the words was far more than the mere outer form of the words would seem to warrant.
For instance, I asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá for
page 134
the answer to a question that had troubled me for a year or more.  He answered me in a few words without apparently any particular effort at explanation-yet his simple statement conveyed to me immediately an understanding of the whole matter that perfectly satisfied.  Perhaps the same words spoken by an other would have made no impression, for they were in the form of a simple statement without proof.  Uttered by him, however, they seemed to change the whole current of my thought, create a new consciousness in me and supply me with the power of comprehension; so that a matter which had puzzled me for more than a year was cleared up in an instant.  I trust this will convey to you my meaning-that the real power at 'Akká was the power of love and knowledge, purely spiritual in its manifestation, a matter of the heart and of the soul, and had no connection whatever with physical miracles and phenomena.
To realize who 'Abdu'l-Bahá was, to understand his relations to Bahá'u'lláh and to Christ, to comprehend that he needed no other glorification, commendation or exaltation than that he was 'Abdu'l-Bahá, to know why it was that he commanded that no other name or title should be given to him, and that by no explanation or interpretation could the station of 'Abdu'l-Bahá be made any more glorious than it was, one must be able with the spiritual eye to see the things of the Spirit.
If we are to be content, as he was content, with his simple designation as the Servant of Bahá, and have no desire to refer to him by any other title-like him we must realize that we are nothing and that God is all, must eliminate the ego, surrender the self and allow God to do His work in us, instead of imagining that we have any power to accomplish it within ourselves.
To be able to apprehend the station of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is to apprehend, at least in part, the great truth of renunciation, of absolute surrender to God.  Surrender to God!  How easy to say, but how difficult to really understand and do!  It means to be conscious of our nothingness, and to open our souls and let the fragrances of the Spirit blow through them, to feel that God in us is doing our seeing, our willing, our thinking, and relieving us of the responsibility.  It is to understand that He is the great burden bearer, on Whose shoulders is the government of all things.  Here is a vicarious atonement worth having, a vicarious atonement that brings rest and peace and real salvation.
Who are we and what can we accomplish?  It is true that the station of man is very high, but it is high because of his capacity to receive from God.  The breeze of the Spirit blows by the rocks, by the trees and by the animals, but they are unconscious of it.  Man, however, has the power not only to become conscious of it but also to be the instrument of it in the enlightenment of mankind and the vivification of the world.  And this is a matter of simple faith.  When we realize that we are nothing and know nothing, and stand humbly before God, we shall be clothed upon by the Spirit.
Jesus said: "Consider the lilies, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin and yet I say unto you that Solomon in all His Glory was not arrayed like one of these."  With all our toiling and spinning and fretting, the best that we can do is to clothe ourselves with mere garments of fig leaves, with mere symbols to hide our ignorance.  However, those who have found the secret of turning to God in perfect self surrender and sure faith receive a spiritual garment inexpressibly beautiful.  The secret of real spiritual power is the renunciation of the self and dependence upon God.
This spirit of renunciation and of absolute submission and surrender to God is the Spirit in which one was bathed at 'Akká.  The lesson of complete reliance upon God for all guidance and for all knowledge is the great lesson we received there, for when we submit to God we realize His Love in us and it radiates from us.  The Master has said that when
page 135
we "receive the confirmation of the Holy Spirit we need no other teacher."  However, we cannot get that confirmation until we learn to rely on the Spirit wholly.
I trust that we all may learn this great lesson, and cutting ourselves from all outer personalities, lean entirely upon the Inner Reality of which the Prophets are the authoritative and confirmed outer Manifestation.  To be free from personality, we must be free from our own personality.  Once we have attained this freedom, other personalities will cease to trouble us.  Escaping our own personality, we must find refuge in the Love of God.


XV:5, August 1924
page 135
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"The mission of the Prophets is no other than the advancement of the education of the world of humanity.  The Prophets are the real teachers or educators.  The Prophets are the Universal Instructors. ...
The Greatest proof of a Manifestation is the Manifestation Himself.  We do not have to prove the existence of the sun.  The sun is independent of proof.  He who has sight can see the sun and prove it for himself.  It is not necessary to seek for other proof.  For instance, it is a fixed fact that nothing could grow upon the earth without the light of the sun.  It is easily proved that without the sun's heat and light no animal life could exist.  The sun's light is indispensable its heat essential.  This is the sun's greatest proof. ...  The great Prophets did not enter school to be taught of men, yet so many things did they manifest that at last we must admit that the world is not able to destroy the wisdom of the Prophets or grow without them. ...  There must be a Standard. ...  The Light of God will shine, must shine. ...  Although the Christ was not a great and honoured man; although He was of such poor and humble condition that He was born in a manger, yet He changed the whole world by His Power and Divinity.  What proof could be greater than this?  How can any one deny His proof!  In the same way Bahá'u'lláh came from Persia which is not an important nation of the world.  He did not go to school and yet so much knowledge was manifest in Him that we must confess that it is impossible to deny His wisdom and His divinity. ...  The Manifestations of God are sent when most needed."


XV:6, September 1924
page 153
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"We must love all humanity as the children of God.  Even if they kill us we must die with love for them.  It is not possible for us to love every one with a personal love, but we must love all humanity alike.
"There are many stages or kinds of love.  In the beginning God through His Love created man.  Man is the highest product of His Love and the purpose of Man's existence is to reflect this Love of God in his soul.  But man in his egotism and love of self turns away from his Creator and thereby prevents the accomplishment of his divine plan.  The Manifestations appear to show man the way to God through Love.  By them, man is brought to the condition of severance from his egotism and being absorbed into the Ocean of Love Divine.
"There is a profound, a divine wisdom in Love.  The Light of God shines in the eyes when the heart is pure.  The home of Religion is the Heart."


XV:6, September 1924
page 157
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"The heart of man is a garden.  The real garden is in order, well planted, watered and cultivated.  This is not so with the jungle.  The jungle gives no evidence of cultivation.  Where there is no gardener, disorder prevails.  Wild growth produces nothing.  Human education is of great importance.  It is especially necessary to educate the children.  They are the young tender trees of God's planting.  But the supreme education is Divine Teaching.  Through it the most ignorant become wise and the lowest are elevated to the loftiest heights.  This transformation in man is made by the Manifestations of God.  Through them the wicked become righteous, the weak firm, the barren fruitful.  One day's education under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is better than ten years' material training in the universities of the world.  Bahá'u'lláh has said that two steps are necessary for human development:  Material and Divine Education. ...  Education makes of man a man.  Religion is Divine Education.  There are two pathways which have been pointed out by the Heavenly Educators.  The first is Divine Guidance and reliance upon the Manifestations of God.  The other is the road of materialism and reliance upon the senses.  These roads lead in opposite directions. ...  Divine Education is the sum total of all development.  It is the safeguard of humanity. ...
"In this age every face must turn to God, so that spiritual enlightenment will go hand in hand with material education.  Material education alone cannot make the world happy.  Spiritual civilization must assist the material civilization.
"The powers of mind are the bounties of God given to man to lead him toward spiritual happiness."


XV:6, September 1924
page 166
Man and the ant
Stanwood Cobb
Dr Forel is the world's great authority on ants.  His collection now lodged in the museum of Geneva is the largest in existence, He has added three hundred to the known species.  In addition, he has in former days been a psychologist of note, a great temperance worker and a distinguished humanitarian.  His connection with the Bahá'í Cause is remarkable.  At the age of seventy, discovering that Bahá'u'lláh had years ago enunciated principles such as his own soul had evolved and longed to see put in practice, he felt it but logical to call himself a Bahá'í and follower of that great Prophet.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, a few years before His passing, wrote a long Tablet to him in answer to his inquiries in regard to the nature of existence ....  This Tablet, satisfying the venerable scientist's metaphysical inquiries made him a still more devoted Bahá'í.
This is not a fable, but a little pilgrimage to the home of Dr Auguste Forel, who admires the life of ants more than he admires the life of men.  In his latest book, Man and the Ant he asks in all seriousness-"What can we do to become more like the ants while still remaining human beings?"
Man, he finds, has not yet reached the stage of true social development.  "By hereditary disposition man a natural egoist,-individualistic, passionate, rapacious, dominating, vindictive and jealous, eager to exploit his fellow beings, to tyrannize and oppress them in order the better to enjoy life himself.  "But," he goes on to say, "the social instinct of the ant, little by little accumulated in his hereditary memory and co-ordinated by it, is much more sapient than that of the 'homo sapiens' of Linneus."
It was this lover of the insect the life of which represents the most successful social organization on this planet,-it was Dr Auguste Forel, specialist in psychiatry, lifelong ardent worker for temperance, and the world's greatest authority on ants, whom we were privileged to visit.
"I have just received your card," he wrote, "and I pray you to come and dine informally with us at noon Monday next.  Our house is called 'The Ant's Nest' and is fifteen minutes from the station of Yvorne.  I will come to meet you if you will telephone the exact time of your arrival."
So Monday morning found us,-my wife, Lady B., and myself, starting on our pilgrimage to greatness.  Through the windows of the train shone kaleidoscopically the splendours of the Lake Geneva littoral, Vevey, Montreux, Territet that scenic gem, the Castle of Chillon, Villeneuve, and at last Yvorne charming village at the entrance of the Rhone valley on the Simplon route and the goal of our journey.
Upon our descent, there peered at us, through blue glasses, eyes the keenness and intelligence of which were later revealed to us in the privacy of the home; and there advanced to greet us a man old in years, crippled physically by a partial paralysis, but with a mind and heart of eternal youth.
On the twenty minutes walk to his home he talked to us eagerly of his work for temperance, emphasizing chiefly his efforts to raise the Good Templars above the dogmatism of nationality and religion, so that they could concentrate fully on the one important problem of temperance for which purpose they were organized.
"Why," he had said to a bigoted Protestant clergyman who was at odds with a Catholic priest in one of the
Page 167
Austrian chapters of the Good Templars, "Why spend your time arguing about the next world when you should be working to perfect this?"
By such sturdy common sense, by his insistence upon universality, he finally won his point and achieved the neutrality, as regards politics or religion, of the Good Templars in Austria, Bulgaria, Hungary and Switzerland,-countries in which riotous differences had long been a source of controversy and difficulty in the work for temperance.
Dr Forel, it will be remembered, was one of the first to demonstrate the evil effects not only of drunkenness, but also of that habitual moderate drinking which produces upon the body the effect called "alcoholism".  Strong as are the arguments for prohibition furnished by the disasters, individually and socially, of drunkenness, they do not weigh with the average mind as heavily as the facts which have come out as a result of the psychological tests into the state of chronic though mild "alcoholism".  It was the proof furnished by Forel and others, that even mild habitual consumption of alcohol produces temporary paralysis and chronic degeneracy of the nervous tissue, diminishing greatly the quantity and quality of the work done in such a state, that brought into the temperance movement in America the rank and file of manufacturers and business men.  The financial and moral support given the prohibition movement by these men of affairs was one of the chief causes of the successful passing of the Nineteenth Amendment.
"America is ahead of Europe," said Dr Forel.  He is still working indefatigably for prohibition in Europe, where whole populations are alcoholized.  On purchasing his own estate at Yvorne he had the vines pulled up, and turned the vineyard into a fruit and vegetable garden.  He himself neither drinks nor smokes, and his diet is of the simplest.  He has worked ardently for temperance since 1885.
He told us with deep disgust of how in a recent trip to Brussels, in searching for lodging, he happened into a house where four drunkards surrounded one poor woman with their noise and ribaldry.  To him these things seem disgusting and abnormal, and cause him to point to the life of the ant as more admirable than our own.
II
While talking we pass through the simple village of Yvorne and reach the "Ant's Nest" where Madame Forel greets us with simple and unaffected cordiality.  While we wait for dinner Dr Forel tells us of his studies in hypnotism and the cures he has effected by use of it.  On the wall he shows us an oil painting done by a graceful patient of his, who after a fall from his horse had been unable to paint until healed hypnotically by Dr Forel.  Often he has used hypnotism to cure inebriety.
Finding I was interested in the subject and could read German, he gave me before leaving a copy of his book "Der Hypnotismus, oder die Suggestion und die Psychotherapie", not yet translated into English or French.  Dr Forel, by the way, writes with equal facility in German or French, the greater part of his writings being in the latter language.
Madame Forel now announced dinner, and we were shown to our places around a long table where were gathered in addition a daughter, a daughter-in-law, a guest, and seven grandchildren spending here their summer holidays.  Truly did the house deserve its name!
But all went smoothly, as in a true ant society.  The children were quiet and happy, the adults enjoying simultaneously a good dinner and an inspiring conversation, while Madame Forel, unflurried, dispensed food and hospitality.
After dinner came the longed for visit to Dr Forel's study, which was of the kind that every writer and scholar
Page 168
longs for,-large, lined with bookshelves overflowing into two rooms.  Space in which to think, space in which to gather materials for study.  On different shelves were collected pamphlets and books bearing upon the subjects he was most interested in.  In addition to his specialty, the ant, he has made a deep study of the chief problems of humanity.
War and Peace, Prohibition and other humanitarian subjects have absorbed his attention and attracted his pen.
Then we are shown his own publications, most important of which are his "Fourmis de la Susse" and "Le Monde Social des Fourmis".  In addition to his bound books were two shelves full of articles and pamphlets written by him.  There were also translations of his works into Russian, Dutch, Italian and other languages.
With trembling hands he took down and showed us the most precious volume of his library, "Recherches sur les Moeurs des Fourmis Indigenes" by Pierre Hubert, Geneva, 1810; a book which his grandmother, noting his already deep interest in ants, had presented to him at the age of eleven, and which had inspired him to make the study of ants his life work.
In answer to my question as to how early he had begun to study the ant, he told me that this passion was manifest from the age of seven.  At the age of eleven, indeed, he made a discovery in regard to slavery among ants which not even Hubert nor other writers on the ants had noted.  During his school life he spent every Saturday afternoon and every Sunday in observation of these fascinating insects.  In addition to this he utilized every opportunity he could while walking the two miles to and from school each day.
He also remarked that while his theories had changed with the years, the actual observations and facts noted as published in his first book on the ant at the age of twenty-four, "Fourmis de la Susse", have stood the test of fifty years of maturer research and are included practically unchanged in the latest edition of his work.  This, he thought, was a striking example of the superiority of fact, as derived from direct observation, over theoretical speculations.
I thought as I heard from his own lips of the early display of his great life specialty, how important it is not to belittle or restrain the hobbies of childhood; how these hobbies may and very likely will prove of greater import than the studies inflicted upon the child by the maturer judgement of a teacher or of an educational system.
Evidently Dr Forel has the same opinion, for in his book "Man and the Ant" in which he compares the social life of each and draws lessons from the life of the insect to benefit the life of man, he says, "The universities must be decentralized as well as the scholastic authorities of all ranks, in order to liberate the pupils from the yoke of bureaucracy and from the terror of examinations.  The pupils should be organized as in the "New Schools"-(schools of the freer type in Europe corresponding to the "Progressive Schools" in America)-and there should be the least possible obligatory instruction."
After a most interesting tour of his library, in which among other things we noted the pictures of Goethe, Haeckel, and Darwin, favourites of Forel (though he told me he found Haeckel much too dogmatic, contrasting unfavourably with the modesty of Darwin),-he insisted upon our sitting down in a trio around him while he bestowed upon us the greatest possible pleasure, that of hearing him expound to us his chef d'oeuvre, "Le Monde Social des Formis".
Holding the five volumes one after another on his lap and turning the pages with his left hand on account of the paralysis of his right hand, he gave us for upwards of an hour a lecture on
Page 169
the life of the ant illustrated by the pictures in his book.
How wonderful is the mind of genius, never aging.  This great thinker, crippled in body and brain though not in mind, expounded to us the habits and life of his beloved insect with the joy and enthusiasm of youth, and with a mental clarity which defied all infirmities.
III
"See," he said, "I will show you something very interesting.  The ant has a social stomach."
What that meant we were soon to see by aid of an illustration showing the ant as having two stomachs, the anterior one being the social stomach, the posterior one only being devoted to individual uses!  Over fifty years ago, Forel told us, he had demonstrated the uses of this social stomach.  Segregating several ants and causing them to fast for two days, he had then allowed one kept separated from his mates to partake of a liquid food dyed blue by means of cobalt so as to aid observation.
A marvellous thing was noticed.  With a self-abnegation that only the ant is capable of, this little creature did not absorb the food but kept it stored in his social stomach.  As soon as he was allowed to go to his mates he regurgitated this food and fed them with it, not until then permitting a small amount to enter his own stomach for personal nourishment.
The opening from the social to the individual stomach is controlled by four valves which seem to operate by will.  But this will, as has been shown, is not one of egoistic greed, but of social self sacrifice.  In general, Forel told us, nineteen-twentieths of the food eaten is devoted to social uses, and only one-twentieth to personal uses.
Can one refrain from admiring such abnegation of self; or from drawing from it an application to our human needs?  Forel does both.  His interest in the ant is illumined by a vision of what humanity might be, were it organized on this social basis.
Many other wonderful things Forel explained to us,-things which are perhaps commonly known but which took on new life from his zeal:  the keeping of slaves; the devotion of ant nurses; ant-battles; assassin ants who steal into nests and kill the ant-larvae; and other fascinating details of ant life.
One subject explained by him is worthy of full elaboration here.  When ants are attacked they secrete and eject a sticky substance which gums up the antennae of their foes.  Since ants not only smell and touch through their antennae, but use them largely instead of their eyes for guidance, an enemy with befouled antennae is as helpless as a wireless station similarly injured.  But what most interested Forel in this affair was the marvellous chemical power of the cell which manufactures on sudden demand this gummy substance.  He showed us a picture of such a cell magnified five hundred times.  There being no heart in the ant, each cell has control of its own supply of blood.  Upon notice of danger, this particular cell draws from the blood at its command the chemicals necessary for the manufacture of the gum.
Forel's observations in the world of nature furnish him with the material for his philosophy which is strongly monistic.  In the intelligence, skill, and self sufficiency of this little ant-cell, which magnified five hundred times is not as large as a cent, Forel sees a world of significance.  In the microcosm he sees the macrocosm.  He is not only a naturalist of the highest order, but a great humanitarian and philosopher.
He condemns mankind for being far too egocentric.  Though wonderfully advanced in the arts of civilization, man has failed to develop a social instinct sufficient to organize the world he lives in.  He has still the savage instincts of the jungle, and his inherited anti-social individualism threatens now to destroy
Page 170
the very civilization which his intelligence and creative imagination have built up.
Forel, for the last decade, has been working out an ideal program for humanity based upon the social life of the ant.  He has elaborated a very feasible method of international union which would inhibit aggressive nationality and abolish war.  His programme also includes ideas which if put in practice would bring to pass a world culture based on the enlightened application of science to social problems, on justice and unselfishness.
It is a splendid civilization which Forel has envisioned.  "The world or organization of the nations is inevitable," he said.  "There is bound to be a world state, a universal language, and a universal religion.  The Bahá'í movement for the oneness of mankind is, in my estimation, the greatest movement to day working for universal peace and brotherhood."
At this moment the bell rang announcing tea, and we descended to the dining room to partake of that farewell hospitality before starting for the train.  Dr Forel was tired, but as his wife assured us, not harmed by his mental and physical exertions of the day.  These last moments with him were the sweetest and most intimate of all.
"I regret," he said, "that I cannot do more now for humanity.  As you see, I cannot lecture, nor work much."
It is to be noted that Dr Forel has little use for the life of thought only.  His observations of the ants, and his own good heart make him value above all things action for the common good.
To comfort him I said, "But by thinking and acting in the past, you can act now without acting.  It is like money accumulated in the bank, which earns interest.  So your past life of thought and achievement goes on producing its influence, though you are crippled as regards activity."
He was pleased with this idea, but said, "One must not exaggerate personality."
How absolutely modest he is!  There is no shadow of a thought of personal greatness, of fame, in his consciousness.  Only a love of work, of truth; and a burning desire to further a happier organization of humanity, along the lines of social service exemplified by the ant.
It is for this vision of a socialized humanity that I love Forel; of a glorious civilization where each serves each and work is for the benefit of all, not for self only.  This is the dominant thought and motive of his life.
Forel, humanitarian, thinker, I salute you in spirit as I saluted you when I left your house, humbly and lovingly.  And I catch in return your smile, wise and kindly, and your great word of farewell:
"I regret that I cannot work more for the cause of humanity."


XV:8, November 1924
page 227
Faith a profession
George Orr Latimer
Moritz Bonn, chief German Lecturer at the Round Table discussion of the Institute of Politics at Williams College this year, has recently made the statement that "war, at least in continental Europe, has had one far reaching result: it has killed faith.  Its teachings are contrary to the Christian religion. ... when whole nations are imbued with the belief that their interests are the only thing that matters, when they are willing to spend their lives and the lives of their enemies by the million for their national ideals, their God becomes a mere tribal God."
This perhaps expresses the popular conception of the meaning of faith, namely a personal attitude by which divine revelation is subjectively appropriated according to the individual's conception of God's purpose and design.  Then follows a specialized doctrine, a chosen peopled particular church, a superior nation created through an appeal to the limited personal emotions, highly coloured by racial prejudice and lack of common sense-this is the faith complex of today, something that neither originates from logical processes, nor from immediate inner experiences.  To this kind of profession of faith Abraham Lincoln found no time to concern himself with, stating tersely:  "I found difficulty in giving my assent, without mental reservation, to the long, complicated statements of Christian doctrine which characterize their articles of belief and confession of faith."
What then of other kinds of faith; is the fate of the western world limited by a dying religious belief?  Surely there are other faiths, whether in a state of decay or not, that form a vital part of the life of the world.  For instance there is scientific faith, such as the belief in the nebular hypothesis or the theory of relativity; a faith that offers a complete substitution for the decadent religious faith.  There is the faith in a certain political party to solve the social and economic problems of the nation; there is the reliance in a physician's skill to cure the ailments and afflictions of the body; the trust in the ship's captain to navigate the waters safely in all kinds of weather; there is the sense of security for one's life and property by the due process of law; there is the confidence in the national banking system, upon which are based the delicate and complicated methods of local and international credits-in fact all manner of faiths which vary in form and degree from the trust in the city's fire department and the proper sanitation methods of the milkman to the devout muezzin who never fails to call the faithful to prayer, so that waking or sleeping our every moment is the expression of some form of faith.
If faith has died in Europe, it has likewise been severely shaken in America.  Recently Dr Richard C. Cabot, author of "What Men Live By" and at present holding the chair of Social Ethics at Harvard, has pointed out that the web of espionage woven during the late war has become a cancerous growth in the life of our every day human relations.  The spy system at best he says is "something occasional, an exception to be banished as soon as the crisis is over."  However, the system is one based on deceit, treachery and the betrayal of confidence-and it has not been banished.  The recent disclosures in the Department of Justice and the Veterans Bureau at Washington have disclosed the painful facts of the spy system at its worst and have almost undermined one's faith in party politics.  The idea "to get something on someone"
Page 228
has enhanced this uncivilized system.  Secret societies that attempt to take law and order into their own hands still further aggravate the condition and relinings of mankind.  This vast spy system has reached into the legal, social and educational worlds, and much more seriously in the industrial world where employers hire workmen to betray their comrades and in retaliation labour unions employ spies against their employers.  Betrayal and bribery do not bespeak confidence, rather do they breed distrust and a warping of the moral fabric.  News agencies search the world to discover material for future reference regarding one's private life in case that individual should at some time enter the arena of social or political service.  The cinema world portrays, with its questionable educational value, the weaknesses of modern family life, thus undermining the sacredness of the home.  Even the extreme Fundamentalist has girded himself with armour to "fight for the faith", little realizing that faith is not something to be fought for, but is in itself a conquering power.
O ye of little faith, where is that self-trust that Emerson calls the essence of heroism?  "Our fears do make us traitors."  Shall we too die for want of faith and assurance, metamorphosed by the fear complex?  The body politic is sick on account of lack of altruism.  The want of a common faith is the life-destroying ill of humanity at the present time.  Everywhere, in the old world and in the new, man has become a worship per of the idol SELF INTEREST.  Everyone is striving for self advancement at the expense of his fellowman.  Faith is blind and dying.
What then is the faith of the future?  It is not a mere confession.  It is a profession and a practice.  To the Bahá'í it is "first of all conscious knowledge, and second the practice of good deeds."  It is confidence, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá points out:  "The greatest divine bounty is a confident heart."1  It is assurance of a new heaven and a new earth for man.  It is the vision fulfilled of that famous Italian patriot, idealist and apostle of the new democratic evangel, Joseph Mazzini, when he declares:  "The first real earnest religious faith that shall arise upon the ruins of the old worn out creeds will transform the whole of our actual social organization, because every strong and earnest faith tends to apply itself to every branch of human activity; because in every epoch of its existence the earth has ever tended to conform itself to the heaven in which it then believed-in form and degree varying according to the diversity of the times-of the words of the Dominical Christian prayer:  "Thy Kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven."
The new faith must withstand the hurricanes of scepticism, revolution, race riots, international wars and religious enmities.  The quickening power of the Bahá'í spirit has already accomplished the awakening of a new assurance in every one with whom it contacts.  It produces severance from selfish motives; it supplies a complete attraction to spiritual attributes.  It accepts the plan of God for man's practical and spiritual welfare as both workable and liveable.  It acknowledges the voice within but translates that voice into conscientiousness action for the betterment of all humanity.  It sees the vision of the heavenly kingdom established on earth as it should be today.  It is the motive power of a new and radiant century.
"As ye have faith," proclaims 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "so shall your powers and blessings be.  This is the standard-this is the standard-this is the standard."


XV:8, November 1924
page 229
What is faith?
Answered by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
What is real faith?  Faith outwardly means to believe the Message a Manifestation brings to the world and accept the fulfilment in Him of that which the Prophets have announced.  But in reality faith embodies three degrees:  To confess with the tongue; to believe in the heart; to give evidence in our actions.  These three things are essential in true Faith.  The important requirement is the love of God in the heart.  For instance we say a lamp gives light.  In reality the oil which burns produces the illumination, but the lamp and the chimney are necessary before the light can express itself.  The love of God is the light.  The tongue is the chimney or the medium by which that love finds expression.  It also protects the Light.  Likewise the members of the body reflect the inner Light by their actions.  So the tongue confesses in speech and the parts of the body confess in their actions the Love of God within the soul of a true believer.  Thus it was that Peter confessed Christ by his tongue and by his actions.  When the tongue and actions reflect the Love of God, the real qualities of man are revealed.  Christ said, "You will know them by their fruits" that is, by their deeds.  If a believer shows forth divine qualities, we know the true Faith is in his heart.  If we do not find evidence of these qualities; if he is selfish or wicked, he has not the true kind of Faith.  Many claim to possess the true Faith, but it is rare, and when it exists it can not be destroyed.
Faith is not so much what we be have as what we carry out.  Man must prove whatsoever he speaketh by deeds and actions.  If he claims faith he must live and do according to the Teachings.
Although a person of good deeds is acceptable ... the practice of good deeds.1
Faith is the magnet which draws the confirmation of the Merciful One.


XV:9, December 1924
page 249
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"Jesus was a Manifestation of God.  Everything of Him pertained to God.  To know Him was to know God.  To love Him was to love God.  To obey Him was to obey God.  He was the Source of all Divine qualities.  In this Mirror the Light of the Sun of Reality was reflected to the world.  Through this Mirror the Energy of God was transmitted to the world.  The whole disk of the Sun of Reality was reflected in Him."


XV:9, December 1924
page 256
The Divine Perfections of Jesus Christ from the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Christ's birthday is a glorious day. ...  It is necessary that these anniversary celebrations be observed, else man in his negligence would forget all about his Creator; but we should seek to penetrate the dark veils of custom and imitation of ancestors, perchance we may discover the reality of the meaning.  The advent of Christ on this earth was a blessed day, for it was the day on which the Sun of Reality dawned; the day on which all beings were revivified.  In the world's calendar, it was the beginning of a Heavenly Spring.  Today the mention of Christ is on a thousand tongues, but when He was on earth, He was not thought much of, notwithstanding they were awaiting His coming with great impatience.  They thought that they would be His intimate friends.  When He came they knew Him not; they persecuted Him and finally killed Him.
(Unity Triumphant, p. 111.)
__________
Christ appeared in Palestine and was held in contempt because He was from Nazareth.  Only twelve believed in Him; one deserted Him.  There were other believers but they were not strong.  They were troubled with doubts and afterward fell away. ...
Christ said that nothing could ascend into heaven except that which came down from heaven.  He also said:  "I came from heaven and will return to heaven"-and "The Son of Man is in heaven."  He said this while still upon the earth and notwithstanding the fact that he had been born from Mary.  There is no doubt Christ came from heaven and always was in heaven, but when he spoke he did not mean the literal sky.  What then is meant by heaven?  Science proves that there is no heaven or sky, but all is limitless space and one universe.  In this limitless space the heavenly spheres revolve and have their orbits.  But the "heaven" of Christ is that invisible world which is beyond the sight and comprehension of mere man.  It is the spiritual condition.  Therefore the "heaven" of Christ is the will of God.  The Sun of that heaven will never set.  In it the moon and stars are always shining.  It is the limitless Kingdom of God.  It is sanctified from all place.  Christ is always there.
(Ten Days in the Light of Acre, p. 26.)
page 257
Those who looked at the material body of Christ and saw Him enduring all the hardships and trials, marvelled that He was the Messiah because He was in this lowly condition.  As they were considering His physical being, they failed to see the Light shining within it.  But those who looked to the spiritual and the real existence of the spirit in Christ, they firmly believed in him.  We must not look at the lantern, but at the light the candle inside the Lantern.
(Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 959.)
__________
The world must come to know the Word in Christ.  How He was mocked, scorned and laughed at, yet His mission was to uplift the very world which refused Him.  Realization of this will bring tears to the eyes of those who deny Him; cause them to grow silent and thoughtful.  Christ is always Christ.
(Ten Days in the Light of Acre, p. 13.)
__________
You see a Bible in almost every house that you enter.  See what Christ has accomplished.  Witness what one soul who was crucified has accomplished.
When He was living upon the earth He was alone, ridiculed and rejected by His own people.  Almost everybody cursed and ridiculed Him.  His own relatives left Him; even His disciples almost abandoned Him; they placed upon His head a crown of thorns and paraded Him over the streets, and finally they crucified Him.  He was alone! alone! but the traces of His work and the signs of His message have filled the world.  Man must be just.  After these statements no one can deny the greatness of Christ. ...
Consider the essential teachings of His Holiness, Jesus Christ, you will see they are lights.  Nobody can question them.  They are the very source of life.  They are the cause of happiness for the human race, but subsequently imitations appeared, which imitations becloud the Sun of Reality.  That has nothing to do with the reality of Christ.
(Wisdom Talks of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 15.)
__________
To bring spirits within the bonds of serenity is a most arduous undertaking.  This is not the work of everybody.  It necessitates a divine and holy potency, the potency of Inspiration, the power of the Holy Spirit.  For example, His Holiness Christ was capable of leading spirits into that abode of serenity.  He was capable of guiding hearts into that haven of rest.  From the day of His Manifestation to the present time, He has been resuscitating hearts and quickening spirits.  He has exercised that vivifying influence in the realm of hearts and spirits, therefore His resuscitation is everlasting.
(Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 697)
__________
Likewise with the superlative power and the efficacious Word of God He (Christ) gathered together most of the nations of the Past and the West.  This was accomplished at a time when those nations were in the utmost of contention and strife.  He ushered all of them into the overshadowing tent of the oneness of humanity.  He so educated them that they united and agreed ... and the heavenly civilization was the result.  Now, this efficacy of the Word, and this heavenly power, which are extraordinary prove conclusively the validity of His Holiness Christ.  Consider how this heavenly sovereignty is yet permanent and lasting.  Verily, this
page 258
is conclusive proof and manifest evidence.
(Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 730.)


XV:10, January 1925
page 286
The spiritual foundation of education
As taught by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
When we cast a glance at all creational beings, we find that the three forms of life are in need of an education.  For example, in studying the mineral and the vegetable kingdoms, we find that the gardener has a function there in educating the trees.  A tree under the training of a gardener daily progresses and grows.  It presents an extraordinary growth.  If it be wild and fruitless, by the process of grafting it will become fruitful.  If it be small it can be made a big tree, and it can be a beautiful and fresh and verdant tree.  But a tree which is bereft of the training of the gardener daily retrogresses and becomes absolutely deprived of its fruitage.  It will become a tree of the jungle.  Its fruit shall be exceedingly bad.  It may become entirely bereft of fruitage.  Likewise, when we observe the animal kingdom-the animals which have come under training in their world, daily progress and advance.  Nay, rather, they will become beautiful as animals.  They may even develop in their intelligence.  For example, take the Arabian horse.  How intelligent it has become!  How well educated and trained it has become!  How polite even this horse has become!  This is no other than the result of education.  But as to the human world, it is a self evident fact that it is more in need of an education than the other existing beings.  Consider the inhabitants of Africa and the inhabitants of America; what a vast difference is observable!  How the people have become civilized here; and there they are still in the utmost state of savagery.  What is the cause of that savagery and the reason for this civilization?  It is an evident thing that education is responsible therefore.  Education has given the inhabitants of America this civilization, but lack of education has rendered the Africans still savage.  Consider how effective, therefore, is education in the human kingdom.  It renders the ignorant wise; the man who is a tyrant a merciful one; the blind seeing; the deaf attentive.  The imbecile even intelligent.  How vast is this difference!  How colossal is the difference between the man who has been educated and the man who has not been educated.  This is the effect when the teacher is only an ordinary material one, like all other human teachers. ...
__________
The Prophets of God also state that education is most effective, that it does give man sublimity; it does confer on man civilization; it does improve the morals of society; but they further state that in creation there is some difference.  For example, take ten given children of the same age, of the same progeny, in the same school, one curriculum, one teaching, the same food, the same water, the same environment or air, in all respects having interest in common and equal; but we find out erelong that two of these appear exceedingly intelligent; some are in the medium, and some at the bottom of the school.  One may become a professor emeritus; one will not even prove an apt scholar, whereas the education has been the same-one teacher-the same school-the same lessons.  From all standpoints, there has been an equality, but some advance extraordinarily, some
page 287
occupy the middle school, some only the lowest degrees; hence, it becomes evident that in existence, in the very existence of man, mankind is not equal.  In capacity they differ; in their intellectual capability they differ.  They are different, but every member of the human race is capable of becoming educated.  They must be educated.
No matter how much the shell is polished, it can never become the radiant pearl.  The black stone will not become the world illumining gem.  The calocynth and the thorny cactus can never by training and development become the blessed tree.  That is to say, training doth not train the human substance, but it produceth a marvellous effect.  By this effective power all that is registered, in latency, of virtues and capacities in the human reality will be revealed.  It is for this reason that, in this new cycle, education and training are recorded in the Book of God as obligatory and not voluntary.
(Bahá'í Scripture, No. 935.)
__________
All the children must be educated, so that there will not remain one single individual without an education.  In cases of inability on the part of the parents, through sickness, death, etc., the state must educate the child.  In addition to this widespread education, each child must be taught a profession or trade, so that each individual member of the body politic will be enabled to earn his own living and at the same time serve the community.  Work done in the spirit of service is worship.  From this universal system of education misunderstandings will be expelled from amongst the children of men.
(Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 574.)
__________
page 288
Children must receive an excellent education, because they are the young twigs of the tree of humanity and during the years of their growth they imbibe what they hear and see.  They
page 289
must have a share of God's love, then they will become spiritualized.
(Sun of Truth, Oct. 1924, p. 123.)
page 289
The people of the world are like unto school children, and the Dawning Places of Light and Centres of Divine Revelation are wonderful, glorious, incomparable Teachers in the school of reality.
They instruct these children with heavenly teachings and nourish them in the bosom of divine assistance, to enable them to progress in all the degrees of life, to become the objects of God's grace and centres of merciful Bounty, combining all human perfections.  Through their holy admonitions humanity develops in every way outwardly and inwardly, consciously and unconsciously, physically and spiritually, until this perishable world becomes like a mirror reflecting the heavenly world.
(Lessons in Religion, p. 62.)
__________
If graduates of scientific institutions achieve a deed, it is prompted by interested motives, such as attainment to fame and renown or some other material and personal interest.  However, the beloved of God have no desire or intention save that of the good pleasure of the Lord, the Divine Will-that only do they seek.  The love of God is the agency that encourages them achieving philanthropic deeds, directs them to acquire good morals, forces them to good acts, confirms them in withstanding insurmountable difficulties, and makes them prefer the welfare of others to their own.  However, in Europe just as sagacious men are graduated from the universities, likewise vicious and malicious men were forthcoming there from.  The dynamite or bomb, torpedo and other instruments of torture are all results of such education.
However, the Kingdom of God is absolutely good.  It quenches all this fire; it effaces these guns and cannons; it transforms swords into olive boughs; it changes wars and battles into love and accord. ...
The inhabitants of Europe and America have progressed in material Sciences and the Arts of the Kingdom, they have not, yet, established a noteworthy edifice, consequently they are in need of instruction.
Morality is the basis of the happiness of the world of humanity.  Merciful attributes are the best adornments for men.  Science holds the next position to morality.  Science is conducive to the happiness of the world of humanity next in degree to morality.  If a nation be well qualified with education and yet dispossessed of good morals, it will not attain happiness.  If that same nation be dispossessed of education, but possessed of moral training, it will be capable of accomplishing philanthropic deeds.  When morality and science go hand in hand, then will it be light upon light.
(Heavenly Feast, pp. 21-25.)
page 290
If one entering the Kingdom of God possesses learning and science it is well, but the essential thing, or the thing of greatest importance, is to enter into the Kingdom of God and to be characterized by the divine attributes, and to have the intention of doing good to the world, and to be perfectly kind to each member of the human family, and serve in promoting Universal Peace.  Science and learning are good, but they are the branches, not the root.
(Rose Garden of Acca, p. 11.)


XV:11, February 1925
page 322
Religion the basis for an enduring civilization
From the Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The divine religions were founded for no other purpose than the unification of humanity and the pacification of mankind.  At all times and in all ages religion has been a factor in cementing the hearts of men together and by uniting various and divergent creeds ...
(Wisdom Talks, p. 20.)


XV:12, March 1925
page 345
'Abdu'l-Bahá
It is new year-that is to say, the rounding of the cycle of the year.  A year is the expression of a cycle (of the sun).  But now is the beginning of a cycle of Reality, a New Cycle, a New Age, a New Century, a New Time, and a New Year.  Therefore, it is very blessed.
__________
The rising of the sun at the equinox is the symbol of life, and likewise it is the symbol of the Divine Manifestations of God, for the rising of the Sun of Truth in the Heaven of Divine Bounty established the signal of Life for the world.  The human reality begins to live, our thoughts are transformed and our intelligence is quickened.  The Sun of Truth bestows eternal life just as the solar sun is the cause of terrestrial life.
This period of time is the Promised Age ...  Soon the whole world, as in springtime, will change its garb ...  The New Year hath appeared and the spiritual springtime is at hand.


XVI:1, April 1925
page 401
The shining ladder of the words of God
Howard C. Ives
Content not thyself with the repose of a single day and lose not the everlasting rest.  Exchange not the immortal Garden of eternal joy for the earthly furnace of mortality.  Ascend from the dungeon to the beautiful plains of Life, and arise from the cage of the world to the alluring Garden of the Placeless.
Bahá'u'lláh
In the Name of God, the Victor of the Most Victorious, proclaim:  God will assist all those who arise to serve Him.  No one is able to deprive Him of His Majesty, His Dominion, His Sovereignty.  For in the Heavens and in the earth, and in all the Realms of God, etc., is the Victorious, and the Conqueror.
The Báb
The greatest bestowal in the world of existence is a tranquil heart, and it is impossible for man to obtain a tranquil heart save that the good pleasure of the Lord.  That is, man may so adorn the temple of his being with lofty attributes and philanthropic deeds as to be pleasing at the Threshold of the Almighty.  This is the only Path and there is no other Path.  My point is this:  Let all your thoughts, your ideals, your aims and purposes revolve day and night around one common object that is to live in accord with the good pleasure of the Lord.  Then all the doors of felicity will be opened before your faces, you will become successful in all your undertakings, and you will be confirmed in all your accomplishments.  The basic principle is the good pleasure of the Lord:  and the good pleasure of God is obtained thru a tranquil heart, and the tranquillity of the heart is only gained by living in accord with the Divine Teachings and Exhortations.  When a person attains to this station he is contented and peaceful.  Then he will become prosperous in all affairs and enter into paradise.  This station is joy succeeded by joy, confidence after confidence and Paradise after Paradise.  Having reached to this exalted station man lives in Paradise while upon this earth, is in Paradise when he leaves this world.  His heart is in Paradise, his spirit is in Paradise and he is encircled by Paradise.
If thou goest away with this unchanging condition of invariability of inner state, thou shalt see the doors of confirmation open before thy face, thy life will be a crown of heavenly roses and thou shalt find thyself in the highest state of triumph.  Strive day and night to attain to this exalted station.
The afflictions which come to humanity sometimes tend to centre the consciousness upon the limitations.  This is a veritable prison.  Release comes by making of the will a door thru which the confirmations of the spirit come.  The confirmations of the spirit are all those powers and gifts with which some arc born and which men sometimes call genius, but for which others have to strive with infinite pains.  They come to that man or woman who accepts his life with radiant acquiescence.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


XVI:2, May 1925
page 429
The poet historian, Nabíl
Soheil Afnán
It is only to a few that the work the poet historian Nabíl and the story of his eventful life are familiar, yet his unique services to the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh have put the whole Bahá'í world under a deep debt of gratitude and given him a peculiar claim on our interest.
Nabíl, whose original name was Yár Muhammad, was born in the district of Zarand on the 18th of Safar, AH 1247 (i.e. 30 July AD 1831).  His forefathers had been nomadic Arabs occupying the north-eastern part of Persia and one of his great grandfathers enjoyed the leadership of the whole tribe.  Of a family of six children he was the second son, and his early childhood was spent with an uncle, as his father was an invalid and confined to his room.  At the age of nine he was sent to a small school where he learned to read the Qur'án, and his pious father wept for joy to see his son so interested in that work.  He had, however, to be content with the mere reading of it, for if he dared to ask his teacher about the meaning of a word or phrase he was told that it was beyond his powers to comprehend such things!
When the boy had grown a little older, the father and uncle thought it best to find him some work; but in order to satisfy his desire for study they decided to send him to school during the autumn and winter seasons, while in spring and summer he should go to the country as a shepherd.  It was about this time, at the age of twelve as he tells us, that he began to write verse, and he was greatly encouraged when he read one of his poems to the chief of a neighbouring village and won the great man's cordial approval!  As with many more famous men before him, the verdant highlands of Persia and the bright colours that shine in its clear atmosphere seem to have instilled in him the Persians imperishable love of poetry; and the experiences of his shepherd life may well have filled his mind with a sense of awe in the presence of God's mighty handiwork.
It was when visiting a small town in which one of his uncles lived that he heard one day in a little mosque two men by his side mentioning the name of the Báb and the claim that He had put forth.  The conversation arrested his attention and led him to enquiry and investigation.  His search was difficult at first owing to the caution and secrecy which was the only protection of the early followers of the Báb against the enemies who surrounded them on every side and persecuted them remorselessly; but, nothing daunted, the boy went from one follower to another and travelled from town to town until he found what he sought.  It did not take him long to enlist himself among those chosen few, most of whom fell victims to their savage enemies and gave their lives as martyrs in the path of their Beloved.
Years passed by, however, before he was taken to Tihrán to see Bahá'u'lláh who at that time had opened his home to the followers of the Báb and was the main source of inspiration to the persecuted enthusiasts of the Bábí faith.  There for the first time he met both Bahá'u'lláh, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá who was at that time a child of six.  Many were the happy recollections of those days which our poet historian used to recall.
Many years afterwards, in Baghdád, he again had the joy of meeting Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but this time was very different from the previous one.  In the interval he had suffered four months' imprisonment in his own native place, had travelled extensively throughout Persia and had stayed for a considerable time in Kázimayn patiently awaiting the appear-
Page 430
ance of Him whom the Báb had foretold.  He tells us the story of how one day in his own little room in Kázimayn he was seized with a deep feeling of despair, and thought in his heart that after the ghastly martyrdom of the Báb it was hardly fitting for him to remain any longer in the world.  Shutting himself in his room for three days he spent the time in reading and rereading to himself a Tablet which Bahá'u'lláh had revealed to him, and composed a few lines of poetry addressed to God, in which he declared that his heart was consumed with longing to meet Him and having no other present to bring he had resolved to cast his own head at the feet of his Beloved.  Having written this verse he started reading the prayer of Bahá'u'lláh for the last time, intending thereafter to cut his throat.  Hardly had he finished the prayer when the door which had been locked and which many during these three days had tried in vain to open was flung wide with one vigorous push and one of his most intimate friends stepped into the room.  Finding Nabíl in a desperate state of mind he at once took him to his home and took good care of him.  A few days afterwards, however, our hero felt a strange feeling of greatness in himself and started to write in the style and form of tablets and called the people around him to come and follow his leadership.  But some of his friends treated him very wisely and at last induced him to go to Baghdád to meet Bahá'u'lláh there.  He at once started on the journey and on reaching Baghdád went straight to the home of Bahá'u'lláh.  There he met Him for the second time, but this time to fall at His feet and accept Him as his long sought lord and master.
For many years thereafter Nabíl lived in Baghdád and met Bahá'u'lláh very often, but again he returned to Persia to teach the new faith to his countrymen.  Later his travels carried him as far as Egypt where in Alexandria he was cast into prison by the Persian Consul.  One day, seemingly by the merest accident, he learned that the ship in which Bahá'u'lláh was being banished to 'Akká was even then in the port of the City.  He repaired to the roof of his prison and with eager eyes but heavy heart watched the boat sail on its way.
Soon afterwards he was released and permitted to proceed to Anatolia.  From that place he left for Cyprus, from Cyprus to Beirut and thence to 'Akká.  He was forbidden to remain there, however, lest the enemies of Bahá'u'lláh should cause a disturbance, and without having seen his Beloved he left for Jerusalem.  He soon returned to 'Akká, but, being prevented from entering the town, went and stood opposite the fortress in which Bahá'u'lláh was imprisoned.  Bahá'u'lláh appeared at a window and beckoned to him, and for the space of about half an hour, he tells us, from his distant station outside the third moat, he gazed with tear dimmed eyes on his beloved Master.
It was in 'Akká, for the most part, that Nabíl spent the rest of his life, and by the wish of Bahá'u'lláh he undertook the writing of an extensive historical narrative of the Bahá'í Cause.
A few words on Nabíl's works may not be out of place.  He was a very prolific writer and his poetry might fill many volumes, but not all of it was of a very high grade.  A few of his lyrics are extremely touching and beautiful, while some of his longer poems on the history of the Cause have no great literary merit.  His main contribution to the Bahá'í literature, however, from which the following gems have been taken, is an extensive work dealing with the whole period from the days prior to the appearance of the Báb until the last days of Bahá'u'lláh.  It can hardly be called a history, as the lack of any systematic arrangement or classification of his materials would not justify such a name, but undoubtedly it is a valuable mine of historical materials, and as such is probably unsurpassed by any other work on the same subject and dealing with the same period.  The fact that among his principal authorities
Page 431
were some of the closest associates of Bahá'u'lláh, notably Mírzá Músá, gives to his book a unique value and establishes it as an invaluable work of reference to the student of Bahá'í history.
A few gems from Bahá'u'lláh which Nabíl recorded from memory follow:
The time is past when with the two words of admittance (i.e. "There is no God but God and Muhammad is His prophet") a man should be considered a believer in the Divine Unity and be counted as one of the faithful.  The time has come when Bahá'u'lláh, seated on the Throne of Glory, addresses all the world, saying:
Know this, O thou who meekest thy Be loved,
Whose heart doth yearn His Presence to attain,
That till in thee His Attributes appear,
In exile and astray thou must remain.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh gave utterance to this all sufficing, blessed Word:
Had the people of Islám but observed two words of the Lord of Omniscience, all would have attained to the Supreme Guidance and have reached the court of acceptance and the joy of reunion, and would not have been afflicted by all these spiritual diseases and selfish designs.  Then would they not have martyred the Solace of the eyes of the prophets (i.e. the Báb) nor arisen against that Promised One.  But in the day of his Manifestation they made the temple of that luminous Orb the target of their bullets.  "O our Lord, judge thou be between us and our people with righteous ness, and verily Thou art the best of judges!"
And those two blessed words are these:  O ye who are believers, fear God and be of the sincere, and be not of those who have hardened their hearts against the remembrance of God.
And further in the same connection the Lord of mankind says that if a person be quick and keen in his powers of perception and discernment the moment a godly person enters his house he will perceive that the air becomes fragrant and the taste of his food and drink be comes delicious, pleasant and exhilarating while on the contrary if an ungodly person enters, the air becomes oppressive and the victuals lose their flavour.  "We seek refuge in God from the evil of the ungodly."
Again he says:  Beware that ye hold not fellowship with the wicked, and again:  Treasure the friendship of the righteous, but withdraw both hand and heart from association with the ungodly.
When Bahá'u'lláh opened the door of gladness and joyful tidings before the face of the people of the world, He uttered this Most Great Word:
To gather jewels have I come to this world.  If one speck of a jewel lie hid in a stone and that stone be beyond the seven seas, until I have found and secured that jewel, my hand shall not stay from its search.
In like manner He says:  For the bringing forth of jewels from the mine of humanity, the True One, may His Majesty be glorified! hath in every age sent a faithful Messenger.  Today the command of God and His decree is that the multitude of paths and diversity of ways should not be made a cause and a source of enmity and hatred.  These plain and firm Paths have all been manifested from one Source and have issued from one place of origin, and these differences were in accordance with the requirements of diverse times and ages.  O people of unity!  Gird up the loins of effort, haply the world maybe freed from religious rancour and hate!
Prayer of Nabíl:  "O my God!  Amid my want and poverty I tell of Thy hidden treasures.  Withhold not Thy Grace, and aid me to bring forth deeds that shall be worthy of Thy Day!"


XVI:2, May 1925
page 434
Truth is the oneness of the kingdom of humanity
Truth is love among the children of men.  Truth is the proclamation of Justice.  Truth is Divine guidance.  Truth is the illumination of the realm of man.  All the Prophets of God have been Heralds of Truth.  All have been united and agreed on this principle.  Every Prophet predicted the coming of a successor and every successor acknowledged the Truth of the predecessor.  Moses prophesied the coming of Christ.  Christ acknowledged Moses.  His Highness, Christ, foretold the appearance of Muhammad and Muhammad accepted the Christ and Moses.  When all these Divine Prophets were united with each other why should we disagree?  We are the followers of those holy souls.  In the same manner that the Prophets loved each other, we should follow their example, for we are all the servants of God and the bounties of the Almighty are encircling every one.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


XVI:3, June 1925
page 469
Kunjangun the village of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Inez Cook
In the heart of the jungle some forty or fifty miles from Rangoon, lies a little Burmese village-Kunjangun.  Of so little importance is it to natives and Europeans alike that no one seems to have heard of it, and yet one feels confident to say that this small corner of Burma holds so dynamic a force that be fore long it must make itself felt at a great distance.
This dynamo of spirit is created by eight hundred Bahá'ís living and working as a unit-a thing thrilling to the heart and imagination.  Picture this, if you can, in a country so steeped in the religious superstitions of the past, and whose people in this quarter still remain so primitive that it would appear almost futile to even carry the great Bahá'í Message of this age to them.  To see this is to behold a miracle-for has not 'Abdu'l-Bahá called it His village?
Seventeen years ago the first seed was planted by Jinábí Siyyid Mustafá Rúmí, that selfless servant of 'Abdu'l-Bahá who has seen this wonderful work grow through submitting himself entirely to the Master and reflecting His love to these people.
It is worth while to repeat the story as it was heard, of how the first step was taken, for it shows that if the desire be strong enough to serve the Cause-in no matter how small a degree-we can make no estimate of its ultimate goal.
One day in the streets of Rangoon a man from the jungle was seen running breathlessly along, looking utterly desperate and at the point of exhaustion.  A Bahá'í happened to be passing at this moment and was attentive at once to this poor man's condition.  Asking if he might help, and to hear something of the cause of his distress, he was told that the man was in search of a legal adviser and had come in a great hurry to the city-only to find himself at an utter loss.
The jungle man had been accused of a criminal offence by his sister-in-law, in a passion of jealousy, and shortly afterward convicted by the magistrate, who had received a bribe of two hundred rupees
Page 470
from the sister-in-law.  The Bahá'í said that he would lead the man to one who would advise him (Siyyid Mustafá) and help in any way possible.
On hearing the story Siyyid Mustafá said that he knew this magistrate and they would return together at once to the jungle.  By chance on the riverboat they met the magistrate, who was indebted to Siyyid Mustafá for past favours, and when asked why he had convicted this man he said:  "But the courts are at your disposal, do with them as you will."  Siyyid Mustafá assured him that only justice was desired and that he himself would plead this man's case at another trial.  This was done and the accused one freed.
After that several families of Kunjangun came to the city at various times, and were always entertained by Siyyid Mustafá.  For two years he was at this service, never during this time mentioning the Cause.  Finally they asked why he took so much trouble for them, saying that they had never met anyone like this before.  Then he told them that he was a Bahá'í, and they asked to be taught, so that they might become as he was.
There were ten to be taught at first-and these ten instructed others, and so on.  Siyyid Mustafá visited them regularly and helped with all their affairs.  A school was started, then a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, and later ground was given them for community cultivation-the proceeds to be used for the Cause.  There are sixty-five acres in all and last year the rice sold for this netted almost one hundred pounds sterling.
We had a great desire to see this Bahá'í village and decided to make the trip, in spite of all the discouragement we received from the English residents of Rangoon.  They told us of all the hardships of the trip, which must be made in one day, and assured its that we probably would not return from the jungle alive and they knew nothing of the Bahá'ís and thought we were a lot of quite mad Americans bent on sightseeing.
Siyyid Mustafá sent a man to Kunjangun a day ahead of us bearing food, cooking utensils, etc., as these friends are unprepared for visitors or to do our sort of cooking.
We were up before daybreak and on the river by sunrise.  The life of the East begins early, so already the little ferry was crowded with natives taking the river journey.  They made a picturesque group squatting amongst their gaily coloured robes that rival the sunrise in crimson and blues.
In our tiny, first class compartment there were already two men, a Burmese and an American missionary who had been in the East twenty-one years.  Siyyid Mustafá lost no time in giving them the Bahá'í Message, and we wondered how he had contained himself for two years when getting to know and understand the people of Kunjangun!
Mr Jones, the missionary, was to meet a co-worker at our stop, Twante, and then proceed to another village by the same boat.  But we think 'Abdu'l-Bahá had this trip in hand, and other things had been planned for this day.
When we landed, the second missionary (Mr Spear) rushed on board and told Mr Jones that plans had changed and they were both to go to Kunjangun.  We had met Mr Spear in one of the shops a few days before and when he saw us in this out-of-the-way place his amazement was ridiculous.  "What," he said, "are you American ladies doing in this jungle place-it is too curious!"
We asked them to follow in their car and have luncheon with us and see our eight hundred Bahá'ís-a still more unexpected sight.
We were met in a Ford car by two of the friends and driven to the village twenty-six miles away.  What a marvellous sight to see all our Bahá'í sisters and brothers awaiting us, dressed in holiday attire of most colourful materials.  Lined up on both sides of the road as we approached, their joyous welcome of "Alláh-u-Abhá" rang forth.  Such shining faced and eager curiosity combined would be difficult to picture.
There were four in our party, and be-
Page 471
fore this the only Western Bahá'í they had ever seen was Mrs Schopflocher.  Everyone seemed anxious to be of some service to us, the only one for the moment being to reach for our wraps and parasols.  They led us to the schoolhouse (of course, this was a holiday for the one hundred and fourteen children who attend) and grouped themselves about us on the floor-the men and old Bahá'ís taking precedence in front and the women and children in the rear.  Then they sang Bahá'í hymns to welcome us-taught them in Persian by Siyyid Mustafá.  The rafters sang with the pure joy afloat; and where the chorus was caught up by all the men one could almost see the volume of sound floating through the open doors, on through the sun-baked air to the nearby houses-just as one sees heat vibrations.  Or was it just the tumult of my heart, and the mist in my eyes, that made the air seem vibrant?
Mr Jones and his friend arrived in time for luncheon and seemed astonished to find things just as we had pictured them.  They could not believe until they saw it themselves that this work had been accomplished right in their territory-where years of effort had brought them so little reward by comparison.  They appeared to be as interested in taking snap-shots of the group as we did, but for what purpose they did not say.  However, they left with promises to come again and give talks to our friends, which will be most useful, as the Bahá'ís are diligently studying the Bible.
After luncheon we were shown the village proper-which boasts a court, jail and hospital.  Most astonishing of all in this progressive community, they have now a jitney service of Ford cars between Kunjangun and Twante, twenty-six miles distant.  One cannot imagine what this must mean to the villagers, who have had heretofore bullock carts as their only means of transportation.
Then we made our farewells and left, with regret, for the long trip home.  It had been made possible to remain this long only by the generous loan of a private steam launch by one of the Bahá'ís of Rangoon, as the last ferry left Twante long before our arrival there.
Mingled with our joy of this day was an undercurrent of sadness which came as we talked to Siyyid Mustafá on the homeward trip.  To quote his words as nearly as possible will give the best idea: "I am an old man now and who will carry on my work?  Any day I may be called and who will educate these beautiful children?  It breaks my heart to come and see them and to be able to do so little-we need teachers and money to help them now.  When you leave don't forget my people of Kunjangun."
And who, having seen Kunjangun, could forget it!


XVI:3, June 1925
page 473
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Through the bounty and favour of God think nothing difficult or impossible.  God is so bountiful that He brings fire out from the stone; inflammable matter jets out from the interior of the earth; out of the black dust of the soil He produces beautiful flowers; from the bottom of the ocean He brings pearls and corals.  When the Light of His favour is shed upon us the darkness is fled.


XVI:4, July 1925
page 487
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The word of God is the storehouse of all good, all power and all wisdom.  The illiterate fishermen and savage Arabs through it were enabled to solve such problems as were puzzles to eminent sages from the beginning of time.  It awakens within us that brilliant intuition which makes us independent of all tuition, and endows us with all embracing power of spiritual understanding.  Many a soul after fruitless struggles in he ark of philosophy was drowned in the sea of conflicting theories of cause and effect, while those on board the craft of simplicity reached the shore of the Universal Cause, aided by favourable winds blowing from the point of divine knowledge.  When man is associated with that transcendent power emanating from the Word of God, the tree of his being becomes so well rooted in the soil of assurance that it laughs at the hurricanes of scepticism violently attempting its destruction.  For this association of the part with the Whole endows him with the Whole, and this union of the particular with the Universal makes him all in all.


XVI:4, July 1925
page 496
Conquest of prejudice
Jináb-i-Fádil
The idea of world unity was the greatest desire of all the prophets and spiritual world teachers.  Whether they came from Palestine, or manifested in India, or China, or Arabia, or Persia, or elsewhere, their great purpose was to establish peace and unity and harmony among the people of the world.  They dreamed and prophesied about it often in their writings and sacred books.  Jesus Christ always taught love and unity and peace.  But, unfortunately, after all those great prophets, those great teachers and educators, and all those different sacred hocks, when we look at the present situation of the world and read the minds and hearts of the children of men, we find the world much the same as it was thousands of years ago, still groping for the most part in darkness and unhappiness.
The material and industrial civilization grows very much and has reached almost to the age of its maturity, and miraculous discoveries and inventions are appearing day by day.  The nations of the world have become close together almost as neighbours, and thus this globe becomes like a small home for the children of men.  Yet at the same time, when we consider real civilization, which is to give a happy life to the people of the world, we realize that this has not yet been achieved.
In ancient times there were wars and fighting between Babylonians, Egyptians, Greeks, Persians and Romans, each killing the other and destroying the property of the country.  But in this age there are many different new nations doing the same thing, only the names of the nations have changed, and the weapons and instruments of destruction have be come more powerful.
In this age there are many groups of people among the different nations whose hearts are full of hope and the desire for peace and unity.  They are going to their churches and temples, and asking God sincerely to bring harmony and peace among the people.  But they are not able to establish their idea in the world.  There was, and is, something practically wrong in the world, and it is, as I believe, a wrong education.
The people of the world in different nations are preparing themselves for the next war, for another great conflict.  They are training the children and giving them the idea of loving their own nation and worshipping it as they worship God, teaching them to love their own race as they are supposed to love God, and making them love their own ancestral beliefs and hate other thoughts of the world.  Prejudice, misunderstanding and limitations are passing from the minds of parents to the minds of their own children.
Peace cannot be established until we establish it in the hearts of the people.  That is the real peace and unity referred to.  I have not any confidence in a superficial or political peace which may be established through different governments or leaders of the world.  I believe peace must be established through the people themselves.  And peace must be established in the hearts of our children.
Unfortunately, the education of the world is opposed to this purpose, and especially since the war, when conditions are worse than before.  Since the great war all the nations of the world, even the small nations, have tried to make themselves strong and make the next generation have a strong feeling for their own race and nation, for they believe this is their only protection.  This has been the root of fighting and separation in past ages and it is still ruling the world too powerfully.  This cannot be changed except through a new kind of training and education for our children.
In my own experience I have tried to change the minds of those who have
Page 497
grown up with this limited education and have tried to give them a universal vision and understanding of humanity, but unfortunately I was not able to change their minds and was not fully successful, for this limited kind of education has become established like an impassable mountain which cannot be moved or changed.  However, in the pure minds of children it is easy to establish a new kind of education, and this is the only way for the future peace and unity of the world.
We read in the Old Testament that God said he created man in his own image.  What is the image of God?  Universal love and mercifulness.  But you cannot find it among the grownup people of the world.  When a little baby is born into the void he is created in the image of God.  If someone should ask the little baby, "What is your nationality?"  If he were able to answer he would say:  "I do not know anything about nationality.  I came from the invisible world and I consider just one nation, that is the world of existence.  I must wait for my father and my mother and my teachers to make me belong to a limited nation."  If some one should ask him, "What is your race?"  He would say:  "I know only the human race.  I do not know more.  I must wait for my parents and my teachers to make me a member of some special group."  Also, if someone should ask him about his religion, or what tradition he follows, he would say; "I know nothing about different traditions, and my religion is purity of heart and simplicity.  I must wait for my parents and my teachers to tell me what creeds and traditions they will make me believe."
Every little baby in created in the image of God, but the parents and teachers of the world are changing that image, and that universality, purity and simplicity of heart, and are giving the child a wrong and limited education.
The races-creationally, intellectually and spiritually are all the same and equal.  There is not any difference in the creation of God at all.  All have the same power and ability to develop.  The children of all the nations have not any innate prejudice or hatred of one another in the name of any race, nation or re legion.  What, then, has caused difference and separation?  Wrong education.
We have in the literature of the East many stories of the life of the prophets, especially Jesus Christ, which are not found in your Christian Bible.  In one of these it is said that once one of the apostles of Christ saw him running from one place to another without being pursued, and the apostle asked him, "Why are you running?"  Jesus said, "I am running away from foolish people."  The apostle said, "My Lord, you are the son of God, you have the power of the Holy Spirit, you gave life to the dead and cured all kinds of sickness; why are you running from foolish people?"  Jesus answered, "Yes, it is true that I did all those things, but I could not cure foolishness."
This foolishness is the separation of humanity and fighting in the name of different races, nations and religions.  In reality there are not any different nations at all.  This globe is one little home, and these different frontiers arc not geographical and God made, but were made by man in the dark ages.  People are fighting in the name of different nations, and this is superstition and imagination, for there are not different races.  There is one human race living in different parts of this globe, each situated under its natural environment.  There are not different religions at all.  There are different creeds and interpretations of the human mind.  The essential teachings of all those religions are the same and equal.  All of then originated for the spiritual development of man and for creating love among mankind, not hatred and separation.  So when there is not any difference in the nation or race or religion, why are the people separated in the name of different groups and fighting one another?  This is foolishness, and Jesus Christ said he could not cure it.  It is living even until
Page 498
this time.  Only through a new and true education for our children can we establish peace and world unity.
If we should have this universal education among all the nations of the world in different schools and universities, to make our children realize that the world is one home and humanity is one race, and all the religions are one, and all the manifestations of God were divine educators and inspired by one God, and make them love all the nations as their nation, all the races as their own race, all the religions as their own ancestral religion, this will lay down the foundation of peace for the future.  If we should establish this education in the world in this century, in the next century there would not be any more war, and the world of humanity would live in unity of spirit and real peace.
A large group of people who received the spiritual awakening through the manifestation of the glory of God during the middle of the past century, and having the realization of the foundations of world unity for the future, have tried to establish this education in the world, especially in the Orient.  In these new schools of universal education they have gathered the children of various religions, races and nationalities, and new text books are in use containing beautiful and prophetic words of peace and love and harmony from the teachings of Jesus Christ, Isaiah, Moses and other Jewish prophets, Zoroaster, Confucius, Buddha and other Indian prophets, and other great spiritual teachers and educators from the various countries of the world.  Thus, when these children are graduated from such schools, having a universal vision about the world of humanity and the unity of all the religions, and being familiar with the sacred literature of all races, if someone should ask them, "What is your race?" they will answer, "My race is the human race", and if some one should ask them, "What is your nationality?" they will say, "I am a world citizen and if some one should ask them, "What is your religion?" they will say, "My religion is all the religions-that is, to love God and all humanity."
The idea is that the material civilization and the spiritual civilization must grow hand in hand.  The material and industrial civilization, without the universal spiritual civilization, is the cause of war and will make the world of humanity dark as a hell, and will cause the greatest war in the future which will divide the world of humanity into two pieces.  The material civilization, without the spiritual civilization, is like a dead body, which may be very beautiful, but it has no spirit.  This spiritual civilization is the life of the world.
Now this is the foundation of future peace and world unity.  We have to establish it ourselves, not wait for someone or some group to come from here or there to establish it for us.  If we want to establish real peace, if we want to establish a true unity of the world, we have to take part in this activity, and through this the dream of all the past prophets will come true, and the prophecies of all the great manifestations will be fulfilled, and the time will come when the wolf and the lamb will dwell together, when different nations will live together as in different rooms of one home, and different races and different religions will be united and co-operate like different members of one family and different organs of one body, and the world will be a real paradise, peaceful and happy.
(Address given at the Conference for World Unity in San Francisco, 20-22 March 1925.)


XVI:4, July 1925
page 505
'Abdu'l-Bahá
There must be amongst the believers of God the greatest amount of love.  The friends of God must be willing to sacrifice their lives for each other; their love must attain such heights idealism and self-abnegation.  If such a state becomes realized, then this Cause has given its results; but if it does not attain to this summit of renunciation, then the Cause has not produced any fruit.  The fruit of this Tree is Love.
The aim of the appearance of all the Prophets the Manifestations of the holy, divine verities, the revelations of the Holy Scriptures has been for the creation of love in the hearts of men.
His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, underwent all vicissitudes and trials in order that hearts might be cemented together.  You must love each other very much.
The believers of God must become distinguished from all the rest of the world through their deeds.  One of these deeds is love.  By observing them, men must be astonished and wonder at this love existing amongst the believers of God, exclaiming rapturously, "What attraction!  What affection!  How they are united together!  How they have become the expression one spirit and the emanation of one heart!"


XVI:5, August 1925
page 510
Unity-a divine bounty
From the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The human organism may be taken as an example of the bad politic.  As long as the members and parts of the human organism are at peace, co-ordinate and co-operate together peacefully and harmoniously, we have as the result a perfection of life in its fullest form; where they differ we have the reverse. ...  As long as there is an amicable understanding and unity of action and co-ordination among these elements which go to form this phenomenal being, there we have peace.
(Wisdom Talks, p. 21.)
He who expresses an opinion must not voice his opinion as if that opinion is correct or right, but he must give it as a contribution to the consensus of opinion, for the light of reality becomes apparent when there is a coincidence of two opinions. ...  With the greatest or the utmost serenity, sobriety, soberness of temperament, with the utmost state of tranquillity, perfect composure and absolute calm and composure, should man weigh his opinions.  But before expressing his own opinion he must weigh the opinion previously expressed.  When he sees that the opinion previously expressed is better, he must immediately accept it.  He must not be wilful in having an opinion of his own.  This we call the en-
Page 511
deavour at arrival at unity or truth. ...  The members must be in the greatest spirit of fellowship toward one another, so that good results may be forthcoming.
(Wisdom Talks, p. 7.)


XVI:6, September 1925
page 544
How to make life successful
From the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Man becomes like a stone unless he continually supplicates to God.  The heart of man is like a mirror which is covered with dust and to cleanse it one must continually pray to God that it may become clean.  The act of supplication is the polish which erases all worldly de sires. ...  Therefore, prayer is a key by which the doors of the kingdom are opened.  There are many subjects which are difficult for man to solve.  But during prayer and supplication they are unveiled and there is nothing that man cannot find out.
(From notes of Miss Albertson.)


XVI:7, October 1925
page 575
The two natures in man
From the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Then what is the particular function of man?  It is that man should rescue himself, save himself, from the defects of nature, and become qualified with the ideal virtues.
Is it behoving for us to sacrifice these ideal virtues and these possibilities of advancement?  God has endowed us with a power whereby we can even overcome the laws of nature.  Ours is the power to wrest the sword from nature's hand and then use that sword against nature itself.  Is it meet that we should be captives of nature still?  That is, shall we allow no difference to exist between us and the ferocious animal, but continue exercising a ferocity like unto it?
(Compilation, War and Peace, p. 31.)


XVI:7, October 1925
page 598
The Chinese people are most simple hearted and truth seeking.  In China one can teach many souls and train and educate such divine personages, each one of whom may become the bright candle of the world of humanity:  Truly I say they are free from any deceit and hypocrisies and are prompted with ideal motives.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


XVI:7, October 1925
page 600
The duty of educated men, especially university presidents of the nation, is this:  To teach in the universities and schools ideas con corning universal peace, so that the student may be so moulded that in after years he may help carry to fruition the most useful and human issue of mankind.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


XVI:8, November 1925
page 607
'Abdu'l-Bahá's message to the American people
Envy and rancour arise between nations, but because I find the American nation so capable of achievement, and the American government the fairest of the western governments, its systems superior to others, my wish and hope is that the banner of peace may be raised first on this continent, and that the standard of the Most Great Peace may here be unfurled.
May the nation of America and its government unite in their efforts in order that this light may dawn from this point and spread to all regions, for this is one of the greatest bestowal of God.  In order that America may avail herself of this opportunity, I request that you strive and supplicate with heart and soul, devoting all your energies to this end, and that the banner of international peace in reality may be unfurled here, and that American democracy may be the cause of the cessation of warfare in all other countries ... I supplicate the Kingdom of God and ask that you may be instrumental in bringing about the "Great Peace" in this country, in this nation and government, and through them spread it to the world.
(Wisdom Talks, p. 13.)
I was most pleased with the results of my trip to America.  I found a wonderful spirit of peace hovering over that vast continent.  The people are inspired with the thought of peace and are working for its final realization.  I hope that they will be the first nation to unfurl the standard of peace.  I will ever pray for their success.  Today this is the most great service to the world of humanity.
(Compilation, War and Peace, p. 188.)


XVI:8, November 1925
page 610
'Abdu'l-Bahá
To day the most important purpose of the Kingdom of God is the promulgation of the cause of universal peace and the principle of the oneness of the world of humanity.  Whosoever arises in the accomplishment of this pre-eminent service the confirmation of the Holy Spirit will descend upon him.


XVI:8, November 1925
page 617
'Abdu'l-Bahá
What is the greatest need of the world of humanity?
To day in the world of humanity the most important matter is the question of universal peace.  The realization of this principle is the crying need of the time.


XVI:9, December 1925
page 629
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The advent of Christ on this earth was a blessed day, for it was the day on which the Sun of Reality dawned; the day on which all beings were revivified.  In the world's calendar, it was the beginning of a Heavenly Spring.


XVI:10, January 1926
page 664
The kingdom of God
Compiled from the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The Divine Kingdom is like a beautiful garden, but if the people who enter into that garden be blind, they cannot realize anything of the beauty of the flowers; and if they should be deaf, they cannot hear the melodies of the nightingale of that garden; and if they have caught cold, they cannot smell the fragrance of the flowers.  What is the reason?  It is because the deaf and the blind have not the capacity and ability to feel these things.  It is as if they had not entered into that garden.  And so it is with the divine Kingdom of God.  Its stores are open:  those who have capacity can get the benefit, and if they have not capacity they will get no benefit at all.
(Table Talks at 'Akká, p. 17.)


XVI:10, January 1926
page 690
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The honour and exaltation of man must be something more than material riches; material comforts are only a branch, but the root of the exaltation of man is the good attributes and virtues which are the adornments of his reality.  These are the divine appearances, the heavenly bounties, the sublime emotions, the love and knowledge of God; universal wisdom, intellectual perception, scientific discoveries, justice, equity, truthfulness, benevolence, natural courage, and innate fortitude; the respect for rights and the keeping of agreements and covenants; rectitude in all circumstances; serving the truth under all conditions; the sacrifice of one's life for the good of all people; kindness and esteem for all nations; obedience to the teachings of God; service in the Divine Kingdom; the guidance of the people, and the education of the nations and races.  This is the prosperity of the human world!  This is the exaltation of man in the world!  This is eternal life and heavenly honour!
These virtues do not appear from the reality of man except through the power of God and the divine teachings, for they need supernatural power for their manifestation.  It may be that in the world of nature a trace of these perfections may appear; but they are not established and lasting; they are like the rays of the sun upon the walls.
As the compassionate God has placed such a wonderful crown upon the head of man, man should strive that its brilliant jewels may become visible in the world.


XVI:11, February 1926
page 697
God's perfect Laws
Excerpts from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh contains all the great laws and principles of social government.  The basis of God's perfect laws is love for humanity and help for human needs.  If all people followed this Revelation, the masses would be immeasurably uplifted and the Cause of God glorified.  This development of humanity will be gradual, not sudden.  It will surely come to pass; it is impossible to swim against the current of Niagara.  Teaching the Truth is like building bridges by which humanity may cross over the current which threatens.
(Ten Days in the Light of Acre, p. 13.)
The economic question will have great importance in Europe and America.  This question is impossible of solution except through the Religion of God.  Day by day it is settled, then it comes up again.  It cannot be settled save by the Religion of God. ...  Nothing save the Religion of God will solve it.  Nothing save the Religion of God.  This will include both; the capitalists and labourers will be freed.
The solution begins with the village, and when the village is reconstructed, then the cities will be also. ...
(George Orr Latimer, Light of the World, pp. 46-7.)
... All will be in the utmost welfare and comfort.
Notwithstanding this, it does not mean that all are equal.  It cannot be so.  For this reason, the prominent ones, the rich and the poor, will all be at ease.  The people of the world are like an army.  It has a general, officers and privates.  It cannot be possible for all to be privates or all to be officers.  Each of these ranks is necessary.  But all of them from the leaders to the lowest should know their duty. ...  This is the aim, there must be both those who direct and those who carry out the plans.
(George Orr Latimer, Light of the World, pp. 49-50.)
... In America I said to the Socialists:  'These plans which you have will lead to no results.  Suppose you take the property of the rich,
Page 698
what will you do after one year?  All of you will be in need and will die from starvation.  But it cannot be so for neither you nor the rich will be at rest.'  This question of strikes can only be solved through the Religion of God.
(George Orr Latimer, Light of the World, p. 51.)
... In the world of nature there is separation, there is the struggle for existence.  These are the natural tendencies.  This is irresistible.
That which saves man from the world of nature is the Power of God.  It is faith.  It is the Fear of God and it will make man an angel; it transforms him.  From all these conditions it frees him.  It acts opposite to that of nature.  It breaks the sovereignty of nature and without this (power) it is not possible.
(George Orr Latimer, Light of the World, p. 115.)
It will not be possible in the future for men to amass great fortunes by the labour of others.  The rich will willingly divide.  They will come to this gradually, naturally, by their own volition.  It will never be accomplished by war and bloodshed.  The ruling power or government can not treat the rich unjustly.  To force them to divide their wealth would be unjust.  In the future, proportionately about three-quarters of the profits will go to the workmen and one quarter to the owner.  This condition will prevail in about one century.  It will certainly come to pass.
(Ten Days in the Light of Acre, p. 5.)
The doctrine of "human solidarity" is well developed in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Human solidarity is greater than equality.  Equality is obtained, more or less, through force or legislation, but human solidarity is realized through the exercise of free will.  The virtue of man made manifest through voluntary philanthropy based upon the idea of human solidarity is as follows:  Rich men give to the poor-that is, they assist the poor, but by their own desire.  It is not well that the poor should coerce the rich to contribute to them.  Such coercion would be followed by disintegration and the organization of the affairs of society would be disturbed.
The idea of human solidarity, based upon mutual help and understanding, would lead to peace and comfort of the world of humanity, would be the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity, and the means of prosperity and glory of the world.
(Compilation, war, peace and government, p. 94.)


XVI:11, February 1926
page 701
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The law of God exacts that there should be neither excessive wealth nor, excessive poverty.


XVI:11, February 1926
page 707
The parliament of man
The following is part of an address delivered by Jináb-i-Fádil, Persian Bahá'í teacher, during his visit to this country.  The notes have been contributed by Dr Edna Morgan McKinney.-Editor
The Parliament of Man, or the International Legislative Congress, is one of the fundamental principles of His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh.  Bahá'u'lláh over fifty years ago in numerous epistles and many tablets emphasized the organization, the establishment of the Parliament of Man for the safeguarding of the nations.  He called all the kings, emperors and presidents of the world to this high station of universal fellowship and asked them to bring together a Parliament of Man which would vouch safe the rights of humanity.  This heavenly gardener of the world of humanity planted this seed over fifty years ago in the hearts of the people.  The seed pushed forth its head from the dark chamber of the soil and little by little it grew and developed until today it has grown up into a great tree.  Its twigs and branches are extending into the hearts of many thousands of people in all parts of the world.  The spiritually minded people, the forward looking men and women, realize, that although we have achieved great results in the past fifty years, the result of the future will be far greater; nay, rather, in a short time we will be able to herald in the dawn of Universal Peace.
That great gathering of international peace, the Parliament of Man, which even from a physical stand point will be the most perfect, the most artistic, the most comprehensive expression of universal ideals on the face of the earth, will be established in a spot of the earth which geographically and spiritually will be most favourable to the interrelations and intercommunications of all the races of the world.  That assemblage will be composed of the wisest, the most far sighted, and the most perfect and sagacious statesmen and great leaders of the world.  It will become an asylum and court of last appeal for all the children of men.  It will be the objective centre towards which the eyes of all the people of the world will be turned.  In other words, it will be the brain, not only the physical brain, but the international and spiritual brain, of the world of humanity, which will exist for the betterment of the world of man.  The representatives of all the nations, whether great powers or small powers, will gather together in that great assemblage to discuss ways and means for bringing about the international solutions of all problems and they will constitute in fact the intelligence of the wisest men of all the countries.  Laws will be legislated in the international tribunal which will vouchsafe the happiness and prosperity of the world of man.  Those laws and those principles which will create better understanding between the people will issue
Page 708
forth from the spring.  The brightest intellects and the most luminous thoughts which will upraise and create a world of good for humanity will be emanated from that Parliament.  Just as the electric energy runs through the various wires to light the house, thus laws will be spread all over the world.
The world of humanity is like the individual body of man.  The individual body of man is composed of many members and organs, every limb and organ has a function, and these functions work together orderly for the life of man.  A man desires to accomplish certain things.  He first of all will begin to organize in a way a parliament, a legislative parliament in his own mind and the functions of the brain begin to consult about the work that the man wants to do.  In this consultation assembly in the brain the members sit together and begin to talk whether this work should be done or not, and this discussion takes place in the cerebrum, the seat of thought, and these ideals begin gathering their forces in the cerebrum and cerebellum, and they begin to discuss ways and means and to see if it is advisable to carry the thing out or not.  The evil or good powers, such as the power of love, of hate; the power of absolutism, of co-operation; the power of light, of ignorance; gather their forces in the brain and they begin to debate, and, in the long run, one of these two elements will gain the victory over the other.  The president of that consultative assembly in the brain is the faculty of reason.  When this imaginative faculty is assisted by the power of the Holy Spirit, the result of consultation will be wonderful and conducive to much good.  The final result will be in accordance with happiness and prosperity and welfare of the man himself.  No sooner does the president of this consultative assembly put his seal of approval on this decision than all the other agencies of the organization in the body start to put it into action, these agencies being the executive department of that legislative assembly in the brain.
Now let us carry this simile a little further and apply it to social organization.  It has likewise a consultative assembly, and that will be the international court of arbitration which will be composed of the brightest and most sagacious members of all humanity.  That international Parliament of Man will be similar unto the brain and the mind.  Just as the mind is the ruler in the temple of man, that larger mind will be a ruler in the temple of humanity, and you must then know that when these great minds come together, and they think in no other way than for the welfare of humanity, the laws and statutes issued from that great universal brain will be obeyed by all the members of the system without hesitation.  The representative members of the Parliament of Man having effaced themselves entirely, they will be under the direct guidance of the Holy Spirit and all that they will consider and all their deliberations and laws will be inspired by that great power, for they will think of nothing else but to upraise and spiritualize humanity.  That is why His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh in many of his writings says that when the Parliament of Man is established and all these spiritual and wise representatives have come together, they will be under the direct guidance of the Holy Spirit and all their laws will be in accord with the happiness of human kind.
Unquestionably there are certain conditions for the members of the Parliament of Man.  The first condi-
Page 709
tion for the acceptance of the members is that they must be entirely free from religious prejudices.  Second they must be entirely free from national bias and patriotic prejudices.  In fact, they must be free and quit of all kinds of prejudices.  They must extricate themselves from all the passions and desires of the material world which brings man into the snares of struggle for existence.  They must be turned at all times toward the immortal kingdom of the world of truth.  For if they are not free from all these prejudices and if they are not turning their attention at all times toward the Kingdom of God, and if they are not wholly devoted to the well being of humanity, then they will not be able to reflect the truth and legislate just laws for all the children of men.
The more civilization becomes complicated the greater will be the number of human wants and the greater will be the contiguity of the different parts of the world and the neighbourliness of the world of mankind.  Even today the world has reached to such a stage that the five continents of the world are like five neighbours.
The establishment of the Parliament of Man is an indisputable need and wise statesmen recognize the necessity of such an international assembly in order to equalize the rights and establish justice amongst mankind.  We feel assured that one of the great nations of the earth which is civilized and illumined will put forth an effort and call the nations to the formation of such a Parliament of Man.  This nation will invite the kings and presidents and rulers of all the other countries and they will come together and discuss dispassionately their economic and other problems and that nation will win forever a great name for all posterity.
About fifty years ago Bahá'u'lláh wrote as follows concerning the establishment of the Parliament Man:
"The kings of the earth (may God assist them) must arise and must hold fast to this cause that is, universal peace which will be the greatest means for the happiness and protection of the world.  It is hoped that they may arise to do that which will be conducive to the happiness of the people.  They must organize a great assembly where the kings or their ministers or counsellors present themselves and issue forth the command of conciliation and confederation and they must turn their thoughts from armament to disarmament, and if in the future one of the kings from amongst the kings may arise in rebellion, all the kings and all the rulers arise to quell that rebellion.  Under such a condition there would be no need of large armies and armaments and the means of warfare, except that there should be enough for the protection of the internal affairs of the state.  Should they attain to this great good the inhabitants of the countries will be living in the cradle of peace and happiness, and will be engaged in their own affairs and the lamentations and moaning of the majority of mankind will come to an end.  It is more praiseworthy and it is much better if in that great assembly the kings and rulers themselves may be present.  In the estimation of God that king which will arise from amongst the kings and rulers to issue forth this command, he will be the envy of all of them."


XVI:11, February 1926
page 714
Dr J. E. Esslemont
The following brief biographical sketch of the life of one of our most distinguished Bahá'í teachers and authors, is contributed by the Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of England.  Attached to and made part of it is the appreciative expression of Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause.-Editor
John Ebenezer Esslemont, who passed away at Haifa 22 November 1925, was born on 19 May 1874, the youngest son of John E. Esslemont of Fairford, Cults, Aberdeenshire.
He received his preliminary education at Ferryhill public school and continued his studies at the Robert Gordon College and ultimately at Aberdeen University, where he graduated with honours in April 1898, obtaining not only the medical degrees of Bachelor of Medicine and of Surgery, but also a Philip Research Scholarship at the University.  He spent the second half of 1899 at Berne and Strasburg, at both of which places he wrote papers on his research work, which were published and considered valuable.
Returning to Scotland in December 1899, Esslemont took up the position of assistant to Professor Cash at Aberdeen University, which position he held until 1901, when he went to Australia, remaining there two years.  During this residence in Australia, he married on 19 December 1902.
Early in his life Esslemont's health proved a cause of trouble and anxiety, and in 1903 he was obliged to leave Australia, returning to Aberdeenshire, where he spent the summer, but found it necessary in the winter of that year to proceed to South Africa, the climate of which country it was hoped would prove beneficial to his pulmonary ailment.  He remained in South Africa for five years, returning to his native country in 1908, when he obtained the post of resident medical officer at the Home Sanatorium, Southbourne, Bournemouth which he continued to hold until 1923, when, owing to the death of the proprietor, the Sanatorium was closed and Esslemont found himself without medical occupation.
In 1924 he received a warm invitation from Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause, asking him to spend the winter at Haifa, and early in November he left London, proceeding direct to Port Said.  Writing from Malta, the only port of call, on 15 November, Esslemont spoke of a delightful voyage and of feeling much improved in health.  He spent a day or two in Port Said, where he was most warmly received by the friends, and arrived at Haifa on 21 November.  Here he at once devoted himself to the work of assisting Shoghi Effendi in his multifarious correspondence, which work he continued in spite of ill health until the end.
Such is a brief account of the material side of Esslemont's life; it remains now to say something of the spiritual side, which continues and will continue for evermore.
Whilst at Bournemouth in 1912 Esslemont, in association with several other doctors, took up the question of State medical service and in 1914 he read a paper on this subject before the British Medical Association at its meeting at Bournemouth, which by the attention it aroused helped great-
Page 715
ly the deliberations of the Advisory Committee on Public Health.  The wife of one of Esslemont's associates in this work, who had met 'Abdu'l-Bahá in London in 1911, first mentioned the Bahá'í Cause to Esslemont in December 1914, and lent him some pamphlets.  He had been searching for Truth in many directions, but without finding that which could satisfy his innate religious feeling; on hearing, however, the Bahá'í message he was at once impressed by its beauty and thoroughness; so much so that without delay he procured all books in English which dealt with the subject.  Most truly applicable to Esslemont are the words of the Beloved Master:  "Blessed is he that the Word of God had reached him and had found his soul 'awake'."
His progress in the study of the Sacred Books was therefore rapid, for already in 1915 he was writing to the lady above-mentioned recommending what books she should read; and in February 1916, little more than a twelve-month after he him self first received the Glad Tidings, he wrote at length to a Bahá'í friend in Manchester in terms which show how thoroughly he had accepted the Bahá'í teachings and how profoundly he had already studied them.  Thus he writes:
"We can each become like our friend if we make the great surrender of self and selfishness and become willing channels for the Divine Spirit.  There is no limit to what the human spirit can achieve in the strength of Divine Inspiration.  The germ of the Divine Nature is in every man; only most of us are not manifesting it.  Instead, we are smothering it.  It is like a plant, which needs sun and rain for its growth, the Sun and Rain of the Divine Love and Bounty.  We have the power either to open our hearts to that Love and Bounty or to reject them.  Only by turning our attention and interest away from the world and turning them to God can we grow in spirit.  Such turning means attending to the reality and inner significance of things instead of to the outward appearance.  It means that our interest in and love for everything in all God's universe should vastly increase, but that we should regard all outward appearances but as the garments of the inner realities, as dawning places for the Glory of God.  Oh! may people all over the world soon turn to God, as revealed in Bahá'u'lláh, with humble and contrite hearts, begging for His forgiveness and blessing and imploring His mercy and bounty!  Then shall His Kingdom come in men's hearts and the whole world become one home and all mankind one family."
This extract from one of Esslemont's early letters shows so clearly the spirit which illumined all his words and actions, that its insertion here will be forgiven by those who read his stirring admonition and appeal.  That he himself did in very truth turn to God as revealed by Bahá'u'lláh, and that having so turned, he never deviated by one hair's breadth from the path of love and righteousness is a fact known to those who had the privilege of meeting him and listening to his glowing talks as well as to those who are acquainted with him only through his writings inspired as they are with that same loving spirit which was so apparent to those who knew him personally.
Esslemont's work as a personal teacher, apart from his letters, began in Bournemouth, where a group of adherents to the Cause gathered under his auspices, resulting in the formation of a Spiritual Assembly of
Page 716
which he was the first chairman, a position he continued to occupy until he left England in 1924.  In this connection it may be mentioned that he was also the representative of the Bournemouth group on the National Spiritual Assembly of England, of which body he became Vice President, and which benefited much by his counsel and advice.
Not satisfied with studying the Bahá'í writings for himself alone, which led him to learn Persian so as to read them in the original language, Esslemont set about writing for the instruction of others.  The first nine chapters of his justly celebrated book, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, which were written during the [First] World War, were submitted to the Beloved Master when peace led to the reopening of communications with Haifa, with the result that Esslemont received an invitation from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to visit Haifa, which he did in the winter of 1919-20.  During this visit the Beloved Master discussed the book with the author, making suggestions for its improvement, and indeed read through and revised some three and a half chapters, which had been translated into Persian for the purpose.
The third chapter relating to Bahá'u'lláh was first published as a separate pamphlet, and it was proposed to issue a new edition on the occasion of the Conference on some living religions within the British Empire which was held in London in the autumn of 1924; on consideration, however, it appeared that a more general pamphlet would be both more appropriate and more useful, and thus "Bahá'u'lláh and His Message" came to be written by Esslemont, who also wrote the small leaflet, "What is the Bahá'í Movement?"
It was not only by his printed works that Esslemont became known to the Bahá'í world, for he was an indefatigable and voluminous correspondent not only in English, but also in Esperanto, of which universal language he was a complete master.  Amongst his last labours during his stay at Haifa in 1925 was the revision of the Esperanto translation of the above mentioned leaflet which had been prepared for the meeting of the Universal Esperanto Congress at Geneva in August of that year.  Another work on which he was also engaged towards the close of his earthly career was the translation into German of his large book.
These evidences of Esslemont's labours in the service of the Cause remain open to all, but of the loving services which he so gladly and selflessly rendered to all with whom he came into personal contact, only they can give full account from the inmost recesses of their hearts; but surely all whom he helped will forever bear in mind the inestimable benefits conferred upon them by his words, and more, perhaps, by his living example
Page 717
of what a true Bahá'í should be, for he was nigh unsurpassed in selflessness, in utter devotion and obedience to the Bahá'í teachings, in love and trustfulness to all his fellows.
No better appreciation of Dr Esslemont and of his services to the Bahá'í Cause can be given than that contained in the following letter which the Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause wrote after the passing of him who loved the Cause so well and served it so faithfully:
[refer to Bahá'í Administration, pp. 7-8.]


XVI:12, March 1926
page 728
The existence of God
Excerpts from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
We believe in a Universal Essence or Reality which is purified or exalted above all mention, and which can not possibly be conceived of by the mind of man.  But we can prove Its existence by Its signs which we see in the surrounding creation. ...  We prove the existence of the Universal Essence by qualities that are perfect. ...
We ask:  Is it possible that perfection can exist in the branch of a tree and not exist in the root of the tree?  Is it possible that perfection shall exist in a drop of the sea and not exist in the sea itself?  Is it possible that perfection will not exist in man himself, but will exist in a hair of his head, which is only a part of him?  Is it possible that man, who is a part of the whole, may have qualities of perfection which can not be attributed to the Essence or Reality?  Or, is it possible for man to be a point of perfection and that real Essence be deprived of perfection?  A child could not imagine such a foolish thing. ...
We say that the Essence, or Real-
Page 729
ity, is purified from all words, all description and all praise; that the Essence would have first to be understood and then judged.  But man can not understand the Essence.
(Daily Lessons, p. 30.)
The beings in this existent world are created in different conditions.  There is the mineral condition or degree, the vegetable condition or degree, the animal condition or degree, and the human degree.  Every higher degree comprehends or includes the lower, but the lower degree does not comprehend the higher.  For example, man comprehends the kingdoms below him, but the mineral does not comprehend the three higher kingdoms.  Whatever progress the mineral kingdom may make, it can never reach a condition of knowing the power of growth, and in the same way whatever progress the vegetable kingdom may make, it can never imagine the condition of the animal kingdom, and the animal can not imagine the human reality.  Though all of them are creations, the difference in degree prevents the lower from comprehending the higher.
As this is so, how can man, the phenomenal being, understand God?  How can the creation understand the Creator?  How can the art imagine the artist?  Man can not understand the Reality of Divinity, or know whether he has consciousness or not.  The consciousness of God is not the consciousness which we know of. ...  Man's consciousness is a quality of phenomenal beings, but the consciousness of God is the quality of an Eternal Reality.  Therefore we can not compare one with the other.  The consciousness of God is sanctified and purified from the consciousness of man.
(Daily Lessons, p. 33.)


XVI:12, March 1926
page 744
The import of religion
Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl
The following interesting and valuable treatment of the necessity of religion in the life of the individual and the reuse, is from the pen of one of the greatest of Arabian scholars of the last generation, now deceased.  He travelled and lectured in this country about twenty years ago.  The structure of thought on the part of Arabian scholars-in fact, all the scholarship of the Near-East which goes back to Arabian learning-is distinctly different from our own western structure, yet is just as logical; and, penetrating these quaint differences that appear in, the dialectic of Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl, we will be interested in the deep thoughts of our oriental philosopher and friend.-Editor
The real import of religion is not known to the majority of men.  Even the necessity of religion for the preservation of human society is a point of disagreement among philosophers.  In other words, some the men of learning believe that religion is the only foundation upon which the preservation of human society can be secured; while, on the other hand, many among them persist in the contrary opinion.  Some think religion the best of divine bounties and consider it as essential for the protection of humanity as the mind is for the body.  They assert that just as it is not possible for the human body to accomplish beneficial and universal achievements without the faculty of mind, so it is impossible for the affairs of mankind to be correctly governed without a religion; nay, rather, they say mankind can not continue in the world without it.
Others consider religion an institutor most detrimental to humanity; account it diametrically opposed to civilization and destructive to human society.  To them religion is represented by ecclesiasticism.  They persist that religion is that whereby the masses have been prevented from studying useful sciences and arts, and nations have been taught to entertain hostility and enmity toward each other, causing repeatedly destructive warfare.  Those who hold this view are so strongly opposed to religion that, in many instances, they even dislike the word and shun its mentioning.
When a discerning person reflects upon the conflicting opinions of learned men concerning the usefulness or uselessness of religion, he will readily understand that the only reason for this difference is the fact that the true meaning of religion and its source is not known among men.  Some may ask:  how can the meaning of religion be unknown to the leading philosophers and men of learning; and how can it be that men of science are unable to understand the import of religion, ignoring its source and foundation while at the same time they are able to perfect great inventions and make useful discoveries by which humanity is greatly profited and put under obligation to them?
In order to throw light upon this difficulty let us consider the following point:  Let one among you submit the following question to any ten or twenty men of learning:  "What is religion, its source and foundation, and what is the reason of disagreement among men of learning in accepting or rejecting religion?"
To this question each will render a different answer.  Thus you will realize that these ten or twenty learned men do not agree upon the same statement.  If one investigate historians of religion and theological
Page 745
writings compiled by philosophers and scholars during the nineteenth century, he will clearly discover their contradictory opinions concerning the origin of religion and its meaning.  Did Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury, who lived in the seventeenth century in England (and who is represented by the English generally as the leader and standard bearer of irreligion) and Isaac Newton, the standard bearer of religion, both of whom were great philosophers and inventors-understand the meaning of religion in the same way and agree in their views concerning the truth?  Likewise other learned men, such as John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, Anthony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftsbury, John Foland, an Irishman, Julius Caesar Vanini, an Italian, Cosmo Ruggeri, a Florentine (and profligate)-all of whom were considered great philosophers-were deniers and antagonists of religion.  There were also numerous other men of learning, who entertained different views concerning religion; and some entirely opposed it.  To review the names and lives of these men would necessitate large volumes.  We omit them for the sake of brevity.
Among religious adherents, the Catholics practice the worshipping of images and pictures of His Holiness Christ, and homage to the relics of saints.  On the contrary, Protestants account such worship as idolatry and polytheism.  These two communities have mutually contradictory opinions regarding religion; yet both are founded in refined and civilized nations far advanced in scientific knowledge and enlightenment.  Is not their difference of view in such important matters a mighty evidence of the fact that the source and meaning of divine religion are points of disagreement among them?  Such is also the case among other nations and religious communities as the Muslims, Brahmans, and the followers of Confucius.  All these differ over details of religion.
We should comprehend the meaning of religion, and recognize the proofs and arguments concerning its source and foundation.  It is asserted by men of learning that among animals, man alone is created with natural adaptation to civilization and social life.  All other animal species are minus this tendency to an organized society; whereas, the life of man depends upon the congregation of individuals and co-operation in different arts, occupations, etc.  Without a special community, it is impossible for man to properly conduct the affairs of life.
Mankind alone has been endowed with rational faculties, spiritual perception, comprehension of general ideals, and the gift of invention.  Owing to this fact, man has the power of subduing and controlling the animals; whereas, the animals are not endowed with the faculty of influencing man.
This is what is meant by the verse revealed in the Holy Scriptures, "God has created man after our own image."  Thus we know that, from the beginning, God has chosen the human form, which is the most excellent among created things, to be His manifestation and has distinguished the temple of man from animals by making him the dwelling place of His Holy Spirit.
Now that it is understood that man is in need of society and co-operation, not only to assist his progress toward perfection, civilization and enlightenment but also to assure the continuity of his race and progeny; therefore, it is apparent he should institute laws to accomplish this co-operation and mutual aid, and protect human society from dispersion and disintegration, which is contrary to the
Page 746
natural divine principles embodied in the creation of man.
Thus we say that mankind is in need of two kinds of power for the preservation of society.
1.	A power regulating laws which may guarantee order and discipline in the affairs of each individual.
2.	A penetrative power necessarily imminent in these laws, to influence individual obedience and training in such regulations.
For should there be no laws, the high would oppress the low, the strong would be unjust to the weak, lives and properties would be sacrificed to pillage and destruction, blood would be shed, virtue and honour defamed, tranquillity and peace-which constitute the basis of civilization and refinement and are the protective spirit of human society-would be removed and annulled; and finally society, which assures the perpetuity of mankind, would be overthrown and disintegrated.
You have no doubt heard or read in histories the records concerning large races of former times, and as no laws were instituted among them, were accustomed to live as wild animals in forests and mountain caves; their manner and disposition similar to those of beasts of prey.  Large numbers of such tribes of men were thus reduced to extinction, such as the "primitive Arabians or lost tribes", whose names and the manner of whose brutal life are still recorded in the pages of authoritative historical works.  But owing to regulated laws, the descendants and posterity of these same savage tribes have in the present age far advanced in civilization, and are noted for learning and enlightenment.  Even in the present day, various great nations, tribes and peoples, exist in different parts of the world who have not been lifted above a state of barbarity, and still live like animals.  Some of them are so steeped in savagery that they practice cannibalism, and resemble beasts of prey more than men.  In fact, most of the animal species, even reptiles, abstain from feeding upon their own kind.
A slight reflection upon the above mentioned points will clearly show that the cause of this decline is absence of laws for the preservation of society.  If laws were enacted and enforced among these uncivilized nations and barbarous tribes, they would after a time advance in knowledge, learning, enlightenment, civilization and refinement; attain to prosperity and affluence, and produce philosophers and men of learning who would secure honour and respect for their race and posterity.  But those among them who continued in their actual state of barbarism would gradually decline, finally be extinguished, and their names effaced from the records of the world.  If their names should survive, they would serve only to render them the subjects of admonition and warning.
The first thing God did for the order and preservation of the world was to create religions, which are the only means of civilizing the world and preserving order.  Religion is the only means of elevating the people.  If a man be a great savant, but an atheist, we recognize his talent and call him great.  Yet we are not sure of his integrity; but if he is a religious man in the true sense, he will be honest and upright, and we have then [have] full trust in him.  By religion is meant the knowledge of God, because God first created us to know Him, that He is powerful and mighty in all things, that He encompasseth all things; therefore He made the laws and ordinances which are important for us to know.


XVII:1, April 1926
page 6
The Divine Revelators
Excerpts from the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
That reality which is the Essence of God cannot be conceived of by any understanding, therefore God has created a Manifestor, and in Him is reflected that Sanctified Reality.
The Manifestations are points or sources of assistance for all people, and they are the Educators of man.  They are like mirrors, and the Reality the Essence is like the sun.
A Prophet brings a spiritual civilization and after that is established material progress follows.
(Daily Lessons, pp. 34, 54.)


XVII:2, May 1926
page 39
Difficulties in the path of prophethood
From the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Do the Manifestations differ in degree?  These supreme holy souls are God-like in their attributes.  The garments in which they appear are different, but the attributes are the same.  In their real intrinsic power they show forth the Perfection of God.  The Reality of God in them never varies; only the garment in which the Primal Reality is clothed is different according to the time and place of their Appearance and Declaration to the world.  One day it is the garment of Abraham, then Moses, then Jesus, then Bahá'u'lláh.  Knowledge of this Oneness is true enlightenment.  Some see the garment only and worship the personality; some see the Reality and worship "in spirit and in truth".  Some of the Hebrews admired the embroidered beauty of the garment of Abraham, but were blind to the Real Light which shone upon the darkness of the world through him.  Moses was denied; Jesus was denied, crucified; all have been denied and persecuted for this reason.  Men see the garment and are blind to the Reality; worship the personality and do not know the Truth, the Light Itself.  Some worship the Tree of Life, but do not eat of the blessed fruit of the Tree.  Therefore differ-
Page 40
ences and disagreements arise in religious belief. ...  Find the Light itself and there will be no difference of opinion or belief as to the personality or degrees of the Manifestations of God.
(Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 31.)
The word of God is revealed according to the degree of spiritual sight, no matter who the messenger may be. ...  People do not receive the Manifestation of God because they are veiled by their imaginations.  Imagination is one of our greatest powers and a most difficult one to rule.  Imagination is the father of superstition. ...  Through imagination men receive a distorted view of a former Manifestation and are prevented from recognizing and accepting the Truth and Reality of the present one.  They are veiled from the Light and Glory of God by imagination.  These veils prevent the true Light from entering the soul.  Therefore men follow the false light of their imaginations and cling to error instead of truth.  Thus the Egyptians were veiled from the Light of God in Moses.  The Jews were veiled from the Glory of Jesus simply because they did not know Moses rightly and so were blinded to the one he promised would come after him.  Today Jews, Muslims and Christians, not seeing the former Manifestation with true vision, are veiled from the Glory of God in Bahá'u'lláh.
(Ten Days in the Light of Acca, pp. 28-30.)
One of the greatest veils is literal interpretation of the prophecies. ...  Again, many refuse the Manifestation in His Day because they do not want to walk the hard road of devotion and servitude, but prefer the easy road of hereditary belief.
Misconception of the Word of God and its meanings is another great veil which imagination throws over the soul and by which the Light is lost.  Also people inherit their belief from parents and ancestors and follow it blindly, too negligent to know and see for themselves.  Negligence and apathy are heavy "veils of glory".
(Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 30.)


XVII:2, May 1926
page 42
The Day Star
Soheil Afnán
For any appreciation, much less a proper understanding of the remarkable life of the Báb, the real significance of his mission, the purport of his extensive Writings and the far reaching influence of his teachings, nothing is more necessary than a survey, however brief, of the social and spiritual conditions of Persia in the middle of the last century.
The central government in Tihrán, enjoying a somewhat nominal sway over the various Persian provinces, was an absolute monarchy and corrupt to the very extreme.  By an act of favouritism and graft a man would gain the most important office in the land only to be hurled down again and replaced by one who gave a higher bid.  The economic conditions were equally precarious; the country lived under a feudal system similar to the Middle Ages in Europe.  Society was governed by a low standard of morality.  Religion, which has throughout the history of the East, much more than in the West, been the most important factor of civilization, and which has ever inspired the imaginative mind of the Easterner with everything that was pure and sublime, had for the most part lost its spirit and degenerated into a matter of forms and social rites.  It still held sway over the illiterate and ignorant masses, which comprised the extreme majority of the people, and in the hands of the self-seeking and corrupt clergy proved a force by which they could challenge even the mightiest power in the land.  The true religion of Islám no more existed, but had been overlaid with an admixture of extraneous doctrines, and the clergy amongst themselves had been divided into various schools of thought bearing hardly any resemblance to the tenets of the mother faith.  In the words of an eminent European writer, "Islam survives as the badge of a conservative institution for the protection of the vested interests of the ruling classes, as a war cry for enlisting in their service the passions of popular superstitions and also as a customary common denominator of heterogeneous schools of thought that accept its inherited forms and ceremonies, just as many Europeans continue to conform to the traditional practices of a Christian church long after they have rejected its dogmas, or ceased to be influenced by its spirit.  The result has been, on the one hand, a lapse into mere sensualism, and, on the other, a tendency towards extreme asceticism."
It was at this time that the Báb appeared.  Not only to combat and condemn irreligion and indifferentism, not only to cast aside the veil that hid the corruption of government and church, but to open up a new vista of spiritual life and to prepare the people for the appearance of a "great Person still behind the veil of glory".  He had come, he said, to wipe out fanaticism, to pull down the ponderous edifice of dogmas and rituals that the church had raised only to cover up the ignorance and illiteracy which had killed that spirit of thought and art that was once the pride of the world.  It was the dawn of a New Day and with it must come hope and vigour.  He exhorted the people to cleanse their hearts and minds of age long superstitions, prepare themselves for the coming of the day.  The doings and machinations of the clergy, their explana-
Page 43
tions of the verses of the Qur'án were wrong and corrupt, and in brief all these things must vanish before the piercing, burning light of the new Sun of Truth dawning upon the world.
Nothing is more remarkable, nothing more surprising than that this youth of twenty-five, even in the short period of his ministrations, gathered around him vast multitudes, filled them with zeal and enthusiasm, and out of the abundance of his heart sent them to preach the new gospel.  And the ghastly deaths that each of his disciples was sure to meet dampened not the fire of their spirit, but rallied to his standards increasing numbers every day.  Nor were his recruits mere underlings and malcontents.  The leaders of thought, the most eminent of the clergy, governors, soldiers from the army and also the common man on the street, sat humbly at his feet and drank deep from the ever flowing fountain of spiritual knowledge and truth that flowed from the tongue and pen of the Youth of Shíráz.  The King of Persia, hearing of this young divine, dispatched an eminent high priest to investigate the matter.  But the old erudite theologian was so enraptured by the young prophet that he fell at his feet and asked to be accepted as a humble adherent.  He did not return to the King, but went out to preach the new Faith and ultimately suffered martyrdom with joy.  A distinguished man, old in years and experience, hearing one day of the Báb and his teachings, casually in his business store, did not take even time to let his family know, but travelled at once over hills and dales for hundreds of miles just to meet the Prophet his soul had foretold.  Mothers watched their husbands and children executed and cut to pieces even with scissors, rulers chose the scaffold to their seats of might, and one man with burning wicks in his flesh sat up and asked the curious mob to make way for his royal "cortege".
That the Báb's Writings in the six eventful years of his life, most of which were spent in prison, comprise easily over twenty volumes, is to many very surprising.  And his works extend over a wide range of religious subjects from simple prayers to religious treatises and commentaries.  In the Bayán, which was his great book and which his martyrdom left unfinished, are to be found the main tenets and principles of the new faith.  It was there that he explained the symbolic meaning of heaven and purgatory to which the ignorant Muslims clung rigidly, and the religious cycles which have given a new significance to human history.  Most of his Writings were written for the people in Persia, and as he said he had come to destroy the old bonds of superstition and to prepare the people for the one whom he called "He whom God shall make manifest".
Before this growing tide that swept Persia from one end to another, the government and the clergy stood not with alarm but agony.  Every conceivable measure, the most barbarous butchery the world has ever seen, helped only to fan the more the growing fire of the early adherents of the faith.  The Báb was sent from one town to another and in every case most of the officials turned Bábís.  He was sent to prison and the jailers fell at his feet; Christians, were chosen to escort him and they joined his faith.  In the northernmost castle of Persia they confined him and the old Kurd in charge of the prison believed in him.
In the public meetings where the clergy tried to refute his ideas and prove the futility of his claim, he came out victorious; and the insults and bastinadoes he suffered belittled him not to the hundreds that every
Page 44
day lay down their lives for his sake.
Finally the last and only measure that the clergy could conceive of combating and killing the growing faith was to execute the young Prophet of Shíráz.  This they carried out in Tabríz when they shot him, together with one of his earnest disciples.  In a miraculous manner the first volley shot by a battalion of soldiers left him totally unhurt and the soldiers found him in a little room in the barracks writing a line of poetry on the wall.  It was to a second volley by another battalion-the first battalion refused to shoot again-that he finally succumbed.
The Báb was dead, but not Bab-ism.  The divine spirit he had infused into the hearts and minds of his zealous and earnest adherents was not only destined to leave a profound and deep felt influence upon the life and thought of the people of Persia, but to pass beyond the frontiers of its mother country and to inspire the people of many lands with that deep understanding of God and religion which lies at the bottom of all sound progress.  It was left for Bahá'u'lláh, whose appearance the Báb had foretold, to carry the standard he had so valiantly raised from one country to another, and to sound the call of unity and brotherhood throughout all the nations of the world.


XVII:2, May 1926
page 55
'Abdu'l-Bahá
How wonderful it will be when the teachers are faithful, attracted and assured, educated and refined Bahá'ís, well grounded in the science of pedagogy and familiar with child psychology; thus they may train the children with the fragrances of God.  In the scheme of human life the teacher and his system of teaching plays the most important role, carrying with it the heaviest responsibilities and most subtle influence.


XVII:2, May 1926
page 61
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (Bahá'í Temple) of 'Ishqábád, Russia
Charles Mason Remey
The following article describing the first Bahá'í religious edifice that has been constructed is written by an architect who has travelled much among the Bahá'ís of Persia and the Orient.  He has himself given much attention to religious architecture, and has made a series of designs for Bahá'í Temples based on the religious architecture of Persia, India and Arabia.  The architectural features of this Temple necessarily appeal to him.-Editor
'Ishqábád,1 one of the chief cities of Russian Turkistán, is just north of the Elburz mountains, which separate the desert plain of western Turkistán on the north from Persia on the south.  The city lies on a plain a short distance from the mountains, which here are rugged and rocky.  The town is quite modern in aspect, being laid off with gardens and broad streets meeting at right angles.  Rows of trees along the sidewalks remind one of a western city, while the low buildings, the walled gardens, and the waterways which flank the streets and are fed with the water of streams from the nearby mountains, are strikingly oriental in character.
This city was but a huddle of mud huts when Bahá'u'lláh first directed some of his followers to settle there during the days of the most severe Bahá'í persecutions in Persia.
There in 'Ishqábád these friends found a refuge of peace and tranquillity where the Russian government protected them and allowed them the free exercise of their faith.  Thus this city became in reality as well as in name the "City of Love".
The Bahá'ís of 'Ishqábád form a strong element in the life of the place and are highly thought of and protected by the government.  The Bahá'í Cause was first brought to the public notice in 'Ishqábád by a martyrdom some thirty five or forty years ago.  It was the case of a learned man of some prominence, who met his death through receiving many wounds at the hands of two assassins.  These two individuals had been instigated by five Moslems, who took this measure to try to stop the spread of the Cause in that city.  The Russian authorities took the matter in hand and condemned to death all of the seven men.  The Bahá'ís then petitioned the Governor to spare their lives.  Since he did not have authority to do this, a petition to the same effect was sent to the Czar, who granted it; and thus the prisoners were sent in chains to the mines of Siberia.  Here is but another instance of the growth of the Cause through persecution, for from that time on the government not only allowed the Bahá'ís to carry on their worship, but it protected them and showed them special favours.
During all of the governmental changes in Russia the Bahá'ís have continued in safety there, since it is understood that they are obedient servants of the government and harbour no sedition against the law of the land.
At about the close of the last century some of the friends in the Orient arose, fired with spiritual fervour, to build the first Bahá'í religious edifice to be erected in the history of the Cause, known as the Mashriqu'l-Adh-
Page 62
kár.  Following the guidance of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'Ishqábád was the place chosen for the site, and Áqá Siyyid Taqí Afnán, one of the most tried and venerable of the friends of the Cause, was appointed to direct this vast undertaking.
'Abdu'l-Bahá himself established the style and the general lines upon which the temple was built-namely, that it should be built upon the plan of a regular nine sided polygon surrounded by loggias and in the midst of a garden at the intersection of nine avenues, with its principal entrance facing the direction of the Holy Land-the composition of the building being similar to that of some of the great temples of Persia and India.
The services of an engineer and architect were secured, the Bahá'ís throughout the Orient arose with fervour to give of their means toward the building, and within a very few years the imposing structure was completed.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is situated in the heart of the city.  Its high dome stands out above the trees and house tops, being visible for miles to travellers as they approach the town.  It is in the centre of a garden bounded by four streets.  In the four corners of this enclosure are four buildings.  One is the Bahá'í school; one is the traveller's house, where pilgrims and wayfarers are lodged; one is for the keepers; and the fourth is to be used as a hospital.  Nine radial avenues approach the temple from the several parts of the grounds, one of which, the chief approach to the building, leads from the main gateway of the grounds to the principal portal of the temple.
In plan the building is composed of three sections; namely, the central rotunda, the aisle or ambulatory, which surrounds it, and the loggia, which surrounds the entire building.  It is built on the plan of a regular polygon of nine sides.  One side is occupied by the monumental main entrance, flanked by minarets-a high arched portico extending two stories in height, recalling in arrangement the architecture of the world famous Taj Mahal at Agra in India, the delight of world travellers, many of whom pronounce it to be the most beautiful temple in the world.  This, the principal doorway, opens toward the direction of the Holy Land.  The entire building is surrounded by two series of loggias-one upper and one lower-which open out upon the garden, giving a very beautiful architectural effect, in harmony with the luxuriant semi tropical vegetation which fills the garden.
The interior is elaborately decorated in plaster relief work.  The writer is under the impression that eventually it is the intention to treat the interior in colours and gold, but when he visited 'Ishqábád in 1901 it was still in the simple white stucco.  The exterior is also done in stucco, which in that climate resists quite well the action of the elements.  The walls, which are of brick, are massively built, while the floors and dome are of concrete and iron.  The whole structure impresses one by its mass and strength.
The rearing of this temple in the East has been a great source of inspiration to the Bahá'í people the world around.  Who can estimate the effect that is produced by this building?  It is the cause of great strength and unity among the Bahá'ís of the world, being the House of Unity open to all peoples.  It is a haven of rest to many a soul and a beacon to guide those who seek the Kingdom of God.


XVII:3, June 1926
page 76
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Man may live a few days in this world, sleeps, eats, drinks and then passes away, is confined into a subterranean dungeon and goes to the lowest of the low, leaving no trace and no name behind him.  But if, on the other hand, he turns during the days of his life to the divine kingdom, acquires human perfections and the excellent attributes of the world of humanity, his life will be a fruitful one, he will pertain to the kingdom and will become heavenly and illumined.


XVII:3, June 1926
page 84
Her Majesty, Queen Marie
Martha L. Root
The following article, highly interesting in itself, comes to us most significantly just at the time when a remarkable statement of Queen Marie appeared in a syndicated form in the newspapers of America in which she described her impressions on reading Dr Esslemont's book, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era.  It is a wholehearted commendation of the Bahá'í teaching.  Queen Marie has been for years noted as a personage deeply imbued with idealistic and humanitarian motives.  It was our privilege in 1909 before her accession to the throne, to visit her summer home in Sinaia, Rumania, at a time when it was unoccupied by her.  We were deeply impressed with the spiritual atmosphere of her living apartment furnished largely with her own handiwork, the carving of the furniture, the paintings, the beautiful altar, all made by herself and all indicative of a deeply spiritual nature.  Her books, her thoughts, as one gleaned in a hasty passage of her home, were such as to indicate the kind and spiritual ruler that she has become.-Editor
Having written to her Majesty, Queen Marie of Rumania, sending with the little note the book, "Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era", an invitation came from the Royal Palace that she would see the writer the next morning at twelve o'clock.  It was a precious letter, for the Queen was not receiving any one because she was in personal sorrow in those days of 15 January to 1 February 1926, when the writer was in Bucharest.
The palace was not the one in the centre of the city which is used more for state functions, but another great palace farther out, a distance of one half hour by carriage.  No need to ask, next morning, if this is the right direction:  the hundreds of car passengers, diplomats, military officers, horseback riders, tradesmen and drivers of ox carts formed two great colourful, interesting processions, one going each way.  It looked as if all roads in the Balkan lands must be leading to this Rumanian King and Queen's Palace, much the same as the mighty Danube River after touching many lands chooses Rumania in which to seek the sea.
In the distance one sees the splendidly wooded grounds of the palace.  They are like a winter fairyland, enchanting with light snow and icicles half revealing, half concealing their forest greens.  Soon one reaches the great gates where officers in fine uniforms stand at attention, and others are stationed down the winding road leading to the porte-cochère.2  One and all when they see the letter, bow, then motion the coachman forward.  So everything went easily, just like a shadow moving round and losing itself in the noonday sun.  The palace was one of those art creations so satisfying to the eye in colour, form and proportion.  As one approaches, one sees that it is not going to be necessary to ring a bell to enter a Queen's home.  Men in stately livery assist one, their eyes are kindly, and instantly one feels that a regal atmosphere is also an inner something indescribably extraordinary as well as gorgeous externally.  The butler with almost Gladstonian manners shows the way up a wide circular stairway to a drawing room.  He informs a Lady in Waiting who comes at once.  She is a young woman very pleasing,
Page 85
and she has her knitting, a scarf, in one hand.  She smiles and greets me and says that Her Majesty, the Queen, will receive me.  Passing down the wide halls hung with art treasures we enter an immense music room where flowers, tapestries, cloisonnéres seem vibrant with beauty and perfectly blended.
However, one gives them hardly a glance, for one feels the presence and sees in the distance a most beautiful woman emerging through the portieres.  The Lady in Waiting whispers so low that it is like a breath, "Her Majesty", and then disappears, softly closing the doors behind me.
Queen Marie of Rumania comes quickly forward, smiling her welcome.  How beautiful she is!  She looks like a flower herself, in her blue silk morning dress with gold low shoes and hose.  One can understand how all love and adore their Queen, for she possesses beauty and charm of mind and manners, while from her grave blue eyes flashes the light of a great spirit; she knows, she understands, she loves!  The meeting that morning, was very simple, very great, the visitor felt the Queen's friendliness.
Sitting down together by the table, Her Majesty expressed thanks for the book, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, and said that she was reading it with deep interest.  She remarked how people's lives differ:  some can be like apostles and travel over the whole world to spread divine Teachings, others perhaps have the task of King or Queen whose responsibility is to bring a country and its people to the highest development possible.  She showed how a King and Queen are the supreme court of justice when all else has failed; when justice has not been found anywhere else, theirs is an ear that can still listen, a hand that can still give, a heart that can still pardon.
Her Majesty proved how awake a Queen must be, always watchful, always ready.  She must never avow herself tired, never admit that she it at the end of her tether.  There must never be any hour of the day or night when the one in need cannot come to her.
Later the conversation turned to religion.  Her Majesty expressed herself that every good part in every religion should be respected, that it is not the form but the spirit which is to be considered.  She said:  "I myself am a Protestant; my husband is Catholic and the children are orthodox.  We have always had perfect understanding, each has respected the other's religion.  No one ever tried to make me anything except a Protestant, and the people have always found me broad toward other religions.  I have never been able to understand this spirit of intolerance and I am astonished at the degree of love that is wasted.  If people would only turn to good all their knowledge, their heart, their intelligence!"
Then Her Majesty emphasized how the ills of the world would be so much less, if only people would never put them into words.  "For instance," she said, "young people go out full of confidence, skirting a danger perhaps not bad to them, and which perhaps would not lead to bad if the people around them did not fan this thought.  No one wishes to be bad.  The reason I am so much in sympathy with your Bahá'í Teachings is because it is the good influence which the young should find instead of the bad.  The bad is so much more frequently emphasized, that the good often goes under.  Sometimes I am accused of not speaking loud enough in indignation against the evils, but life is so full of pitfalls and temptations!  I assure you that any one can come to me and confess his wrong and I will try to help him out of it.  All work, all ambition, all thought should be constructive instead of destroying."
Page 86
Her Majesty, in speaking of her own life, said that no matter how hard hit she was, she always took it as something necessary to her own final completely unselfish self.  One saw her big universal outlook, her courage in dark hours, for at the moment when the writer saw her, she had just been going through a great personal grief.
Several questions were asked by Her Majesty concerning the Bahá'í Movement for world peace.  She was interested in all the Principles and in the teachings for the inner progress of the soul.
Seeing the writer's Esperanto pin she asked about the progress of Esperanto in the different lands.  It was explained that the five pointed star stands for the light to the five continents.  The white background is the colour of peace; the green is the Esperanto colour of hope and the word, "Esperanto" means "one who hopes".  The little star was presented to Her Majesty and she is wearing it.  She was delighted to hear that a new clubhouse has just been presented to the Esperantists of Bucharest by Mr Henry Fisher, one of the great promoters of Esperanto in Europe.  She also said: "Esperanto has my greatest sympathy, and although I am so busy I do hope I shall have time to study Esperanto."  She was greatly interested in all plans for the Eighteenth Universal Esperanto Congress which is to be held in Edinburgh, Scotland the first week in August.  Her Majesty, before her marriage was the Princess of Edinburgh.
Speaking of the Universal Educational Congress which was held in San Francisco in 1923, and in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1925, Her Majesty said she hopes that this Congress will convene, sometime, in Bucharest and that she will herself, come to the sessions.
Her Majesty, Queen Marie of Rumania is an author and some of her works have been translated into Esperanto.  She has great capacity and works very hard to promote many universal movements for the better understanding of the nations and the welfare of humanity.  The week the writer was there she gave her patronage and much help to the formation and first brilliant meeting of "The Society of the Friends of the United States in Rumania".  The object of this society is to perpetuate the existing friendship between the people of Rumania and the United States through a study of the English language, American history, literature, art, science; to facilitate exchanges of scholars of both countries; to invite and receive officially American visitors desiring to know Rumania better.  The speakers were Professor Leon Feraru of Columbia University, New York, who is the Chairman of the Literary Committee of "The Society of Friends of Rumania in New York"; American Ambassador to Rumania, Mr W. S. Culbertson and Princess Cantacuzene, Vice President of the International Council of Women.  Professor Feraru said there were six hundred thousand Rumanians in America; Mr Nicholas Lupu, Leader of the Peasant Party, another speaker said, "America is not bound by a treaty with Rumania, but she is bound by her ideal of justice, stronger than any treaty, and according to her ideal she cannot do us any injustice."
The world admires Her Majesty, Queen Marie because she is so daring and so enthusiastic in all that she undertakes.  She interests herself in all international movements based upon broad and universal principles of right and justice.  When the writer said good bye to this great-hearted, wise, beautiful Queen and gave her Bahá'u'lláh's, Seven Val-
Page 87
leys, a wonderful little book which shows how the spirit can progress through seven stages to perfect freedom, she went away.  She too, carried a gift from Her Majesty-a lovely new ideal of queen-womanhood.  It had been a most happy hour.  Riding back through the winter beauty, she remembered a curious saying of the Rumanian peasants, "Perhaps the time of afterwards has come!"  IT HAS COME!  Though one can hardly vision it with earth bent eyes, those thousand years of peace foretold in the Bibles of the world are to begin in this century!


XVII:3, June 1926
page 97
'Abdu'l-Bahá
O thou lover of reality!  His Highness, the Merciful, has manifested love and harmony to the world of humanity, so that all of the individuals may find a complete connection with each other and the lights of the Oneness of God may appear in the human world.  For this He sent the Holy Manifestations; revealed the heavenly books; established the divine religions so that these holy souls, these revealed books, and these divine religions may become the cause of unity, agreement harmony and love in the world of humanity. ...  As this age is a luminous age and this century the century of knowledge, new teachings are necessary, a new effulgence is essential and a new life is needed.  The souls cannot accept the ancient ideas, a new thought and new teachings are necessary that shall be the spirit of this age and the light of this century.


XVII:4, July 1926
page 104
The one divine light
Compiled from the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Whatever there is in the world of contingency is a symbol of the spiritual world; whatever there is on the earth is a symbol of heavenly things.  For example:  In the spiritual world there is the light of guidance, in the outer world there is the lamp, its symbol.  In the divine world there is love, symbolized in the material world by magnetism.  So there are four seasons in the perishable outer world-spring, which brings the vegetables, refreshes the animals, and promises fruits; summer, which charges the trees with fruits; then follows the autumn, after which comes the winter when the trees are bare and empty.  Such is the condition of the spiritual world which has its four seasons-spring, summer, autumn and winter.
When Jesus Christ appeared, it was the last days of the winter time when the people, who are the trees of the divine garden, were deprived of their fruits; that is, of their divine characteristics and divine moralities.  As nature needs a springtime to revive the trees, so the spiritual nature needs a springtime to fill the garden with flowers and fruits.  It was through the manifestation of Jesus Christ that this spiritual springtime began.  Summer followed with its fruits and later autumn came.  Winter followed and the trees were naked; that is, the people were without their divine qualities.  So again, it became necessary that a new springtime should come. ...
Christ himself said that whatever happened in the cycle of Moses would occur again in his time.  Therefore these occurrences were repeated.  We cannot say that what happened in the time of Christ was remarkable since the same had happened before.  We cannot say that it is extraordinary that the present springtime follows that of last year.  We cannot say this year that these blossoms are useless because the same ones appeared last spring.  The last spring gave out its benefits, and summer, autumn, and winter followed.  If a new spring did not come to the world everything would die.  In every springtime there will be repeated what has happened in previous spring times.
(Table talks with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Notes of Mrs Winterburn, pp. 4, 19.)
Page 105
Bahá'u'lláh is the same Light in a new Lamp.  To see, we must look at the Light and not at the Lamp.  This is spiritual sight.  The sun is one orb but it has different rising points on the horizon.  One point, was Jesus, one Moses, one Bahá'u'lláh, and so on.  Therefore be a lover of the 'Sun' and worship it, no matter at what point it may arise.  If you worship the dawning place you will fail to see the Sun when it arises in another point of the horizon.  Many stand at the old point and worship while they are losing the Light of the Sun in this Manifestation.  True lovers of the Sun worship the Sun itself and not the point of its rising.  They see and know the Light.
(Ten Days in the Light of Acre, p. 28.)


XVII:4, July 1926
page 129
'Abdu'l-Bahá
As this is the radiant century, it is my hope that the Sun Truth may illumine all humanity.  May the eyes be opened and the ears become attentive; may souls become resuscitated and consort together in the utmost harmony as recipients of the same light.  Perchance God will remove this strife and warfare of thousands of years.  May this bloodshed pass away, this tyranny and oppression cease, this warfare be ended.  May the light of love shine forth and illumine hearts and may human lives be cemented and connected until all of us may find agreement and tranquillity beneath the same tabernacle, and with the standard of the "Most Greats Peace" above us move steadily onward.


XVII:5, August 1926
page 161
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The schools should be free from all religious and racial prejudices, for these often prevent good results from being obtained.  All schools and colleges should have these three foundations:
First:  They should be sincere in the service of training the souls.  They should discover the mysteries of nature and extend the circle of art, commerce, etc., so that ignorance and the lack of knowledge will pass away and the lights of science and knowledge shine forth from the horizon of the soul and heart.  In all schools and universities, a general rule for training should be made.
Second:  Training in morality is necessary, so that the pupil's good conduct may remain unchanged and so that they may progress in a most befitting manner, become possessed of lofty ideas, lovers of the world of humanity, and so that they will hold fast to the spiritual perfections and to that which does not displease God.
Third:  Service to the world of humanity should be obligatory.  Every student should know, with perfect certainty, that he is the brother of the people of all religions and nations and that he should be without religious, racial, national, patriotic or political bias, so that he may find the thoughts of universal peace and the love of humankind firmly established in his heart.  He should know himself as a servant of human society of all the countries in the world.  He should see God as the Heavenly Father and all the servants as his children, counting all of the nations, parties, and sects as one family.  The mothers in the homes, the teachers in the schools, the professors in the universities, and the leaders in the lofty gatherings, must cause these thoughts to be penetrative and effective, as the spirit circulating in the veins and nerves of the children and pupils, so that the world of humanity may be delivered from the calamities of fanaticism, war, battle, hate and obstinacy, and so that the nether world may become the paradise of heaven.


XVII:6, September 1926
page 185
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The first thing to be considered in every art before studying it, is to know what benefit comes from that art, and what fruit and result can be obtained.  If a universal profit accrues to the majority of mankind from useful sciences, surely a man should exert himself to study them with his whole soul.  If the sole result of his study is to consist in useless reasoning, following after the imaginations of others, and becoming a centre of quarrel and dispute out of which no one can derive any advantage-what is the sense of it, why should a man spend his life in empty discussion and argument?


XVII:7, October 1926
page 233
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Originally mankind was one family united and compact; later the members of this happy family were divided and subdivided through ignorance and prejudice.  Now the time has come again for their final unification.  Universal peace will bring about this long-wished-for consummation.


XVII:8, November 1926
page 239
Universal Peace
Excerpts from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
How is universal peace to be established?  By the education of the public with the sentiments of peace.  Today the full realization of universal peace is the panacea of every disease. ...  This military and naval expenditure is a great disease. ...  The remedy of this disease is through universal peace.  This will insure public safety.  Today that which is the cause of dispersion is war.  If the nations enter into a faithful agreement to
Page 240
leave off all warlike preparation at once, they shall secure for themselves and their posterity eternal welfare.  They shall become freed from every difficulty and international confusion.  This end must be obtained through the development of the intellects and the inculcation of peaceful ideals in all the institutions of modern civilization.
(Compilation, Peace and War, p. 180.)
Man in this world is the edifice of God.  He is not a human edifice.  If you destroy an edifice built by man, the owner of the house will feel grief indeed and will feel wrath against you.  How much more when man is destroying an edifice founded by God.
Undoubtedly he deserves the wrath of God.  God has created man noble.  God has created man a dominant factor in creation.  He has specialized man with particular bestowals.  He has conferred upon him mind; He has given him perception; He has given him the faculty of memory, the faculty of discrimination; He has endowed him with keen perceptions, the five senses.  With all His good gifts to man which were to make him the manifestations of virtues, which were to make him as a radiant candle, which were to make him a source of life, which were to make him an agent of constructiveness, shall we now destroy this great edifice of God?  Shall we destroy to its very foundation this great body social or politic? ...  There is no baser state than that of the ferocious type.  There is no greater degradation for man than this.  There is no worse debasement than the battlefield.  It is the cause of the wrath of God.  It is the cause of the destruction of the foundations of man.
(Compilation, Peace and War, p. 30.)


XVII:8, November 1926
page 251
'Abdu'l-Bahá
God has given to man the wonderful gift of scientific knowledge by which he has discovered that none can escape this law except man himself; he alone can control, can, by his knowledge and power, rise above this law. ...  It is clear that man alone is able to control the laws of nature.
Look at God's great gift of power to man, by which he is able to do so much for the advancement of civilization!  Then reflect on the terrible misuse of this divine gift.  Instead of using it to promote love, concord and friendship between nations, behold how destruction receives its weapons, hatred and wholesale slaughter of mankind employs the inventions of science; instruments for committing injustice are manufactured, swords instead of ploughshares are forged.  O, the pity of it all!
He should use his power for good, to bring the fruits of civilization into the possible possession of all men, to encourage harmony and kindness, to produce concord amongst men; for this reason God gave this divine gift.


XVII:10, January 1927
page 303
The wisdom in tests
From the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
It is my hope that during the time of tests thou mayest remain in the utmost firmness and steadfastness, so that like unto a lamp thou mayest be protected within the glass, and be not extinguished by the blowing of winds. ...  Be thou resolute and steadfast.  When the tree is firmly rooted it will bear fruit, therefore it is not permitted to be agitated by any test.  Be thou not disheartened!  Be thou not discouraged!  The trials of God are many, but if man remains firm and steadfast the test itself is a stepping stone for the progress of humanity.
(From Tablets to American believers)


XVII:10, January 1927
page 329
'Abdu'l-Bahá
There are two influences tending toward prosperity and progress which emanate from the forefront of advancement of the world of humanity.  They remind the negligent and awaken them that sleep, give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, power of utterance to the mutes and life to the dead.
One is the influence of civilization, that development of the world of nature that concerns the material life of man.  It promotes physical advancement and cultivates the social virtues.  The laws and deductions of science, so indispensable to progress, are the product of lofty thoughts of sound minds, the accumulated results of the efforts of ancient and modern scholars.  The most effective power for the promotion and dissemination of this influence is just government.
The other is the divine influence, the holy and spiritual revelations which insure eternal glory, everlasting happiness, the illumination of the world, the appearance of merciful phenomena in the world of humanity and perpetual life.  The fundamental basis thereof is the teachings and the precepts of the Prophets, the dictates and attraction of the conscience which belong to the realm of morality.  Like unto the lamp they illuminate and brighten the depths and recesses of human realities.  The effective power of this is the Word of God!


XVIII:5, August 1927
page 133
Immortality
From the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
In the revealed Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá there are to be found almost limitless teachings on the subject of "Life after death".  We have attempted to select only a few for the purpose of this compilation.-Editor
Know with true certainty that man was not created for the life of this world as it is mortal and there is no certainty therein.  Is it possible that this great creation and glorious being should terminate in mortality?  Is it meet that the result of God's great creation which is unlimited-that is, man-should live in this world a certain number of days with many difficulties, troubles, without repose and rest, and then die and end in mortality?  No; verily, by truth, this is not meet!  Nay, rather, this glorious being and grand creation was made for the eternal life, spiritual happiness, revelations of the heart, divine inspiration, heavenly perfections and virtues of the kingdom.
(Tablet to the Bahá'ís in Ithaca, N.Y.)
Page 135
But regarding the progress of the spirit in the world of the Kingdom after its ascension, it is wholly beyond space and time, and developments after leaving this body are spiritual and not terrestrial.  It is like unto the progress of the child from the world of the foetus to the world of maturity and intelligence, from the world of ignorance to the world of knowledge, from the station of imperfection to the pinnacle of perfection.  As divine perfections are infinite, therefore the progress of the spirit is limitless.
(Daily lessons in Acre, p. 89.)


XVIII:6, September 1927
page 175
'Abdu'l-Bahá
In the scheme of human life the teacher and his system of teaching plays the most important role, carrying with it the heaviest responsibilities and most subtle influences.  A teacher is like unto a gardener.  Just as a gardener sows the seeds and watches carefully over their sprouting, looks after their growth and progression, so also a teacher must watch over the education of the children and inculcate in their young lives the highest ideals of truth and justice. ...
By every means at their disposal they must inculcate into their growing bodies, souls, minds and spirits, the principles of sincerity, love, trustfulness, obedience, true democracy, and kindness toward all races; thus hereafter the world of civilization may flow in one mighty current and the children of the next generation may make secure the foundations of human solidarity and goodwill.


XVIII:7, October 1927
page 217
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The advancement of civilization, material perfections and human virtues will bear no fruit or result unless joined to the spiritual perfections, merciful qualities and sound morals, and the happiness of the human world which is the original goal will not be attained.  For although through the advancement of civilization and the adornment and refinement of the material world happiness is realized, and the sight of hopes fulfilled in perfect beauty wins the heart, yet concomitantly, great dangers, severe ordeals and awful catastrophes are involved.
Now when ye behold the order and regularity of countries, cities and villages, the attractive adornment, the delicacy of the blessings, the suitability of implements, the ease of transportation and travelling, the extension of knowledge of the facts of the world of nature, the great inventions and gigantic undertakings and the fine and artistic discoveries, ye shall say that civilization is the cause of happiness and the development of the human world.
Yet again when ye glance over the inventions of infernal instruments of destruction, the creation of forces of ruin, the discovery of fiery means which cut at the root of life, it becomes plainly evident that civilization is twin with savagery and a concomitant thereof unless material civilization be aided by divine guidance, merciful appearance, heavenly thoughts, and becomes joined to the spiritual states, the perfections of the Kingdom of God and the divine bounties. ...  Therefore this civilization and material development must be led by the great guidance; the mundane world must be made the place for the appearance of the bounties of the kingdom; material advancement must be made twin with merciful revelation.  Thus may the human world appear as the representative of the heavenly assembly on the plane of existence, and the exposition of divine evidence may reveal itself in the greatest sweetness and loveliness.  Thus may eternal happiness and glory find realization.
Know ye verily that the happiness of the world of humanity is dependent upon the unity and solidarity of mankind, and that material and spiritual progress both rest upon universal friendliness and love among human individuals.


XVIII:9, December 1927
page 261
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The glory and the exaltation of the station of Christ is as clear as the sun at midday from the books and tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  The object of the Bahá'í Cause is identical with the object of the Bible and the Gospel.  The Bahá'ís must be informed as to the contents of the Old and New Testaments.
Concerning the faith of the Bahá'ís as to the station of His Holiness Christ, they believe He is the Word of God.
__________
There are prepared souls in every religion.  Today God is working in all the churches instructing many souls in celestial brotherhood.  These souls are related by invisible and spiritual ties and are being ripened by the Holy Spirit.


XVIII:9, December 1927
page 283
'Abdu'l-Bahá's table
Shahnáz Waite
This is the first of a series of articles or compilations giving interesting experiences of those who came into personal contact with 'Abdu'l-Bahá during His lifetime either in the Holy Land or during His visit to the West.  We will welcome any contributions to this section which we purpose to continue from time to time.-Editor
At no time in the history of human events has such a table existed as existed in the prison home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in the penal colony city of 'Akká, Syria, during a period extending from about 1896 to 1909 when 'Abdu'l-Bahá, having been set free in 1908, moved with His family to Haifa, ending this chapter in the history of the Bahá'í Cause.  The comparatively few who were privileged to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá in this prison, and sit at this table as His guests, coming from all parts of the globe, and drawn by the magnet of the "Fire of the Love of God" will never forget it.  The realization of the spiritual significance of this experience, its unparalleled uniqueness; its tragic and dramatic setting, and the effect upon the hearts of those so honoured as to "break bread" together under such sacred circumstances, grows clearer, and more wonderful as the years pass.  Many of the band of pilgrims who were called to this spiritual banquet have joined the "choir invisible" and are with the Master behind the veils in higher realms today; and yearly the band grows less.  Future generations will have knowledge of this-the Master's table-only through long transmitted narration.
It was at this table that all of the so-called "Table Talks of 'Abdu'l-Bahá" were given, and later were brought back to America by the different pilgrims and shared with friends.  Many of these "Table Talks" have been published.
It was 'Abdu'l-Bahá's custom to have the meals served in courses.  At the beginning, before the first course was served, and then at the end of each following course, while the dishes were quietly removed, He would speak to the friends along spiritual lines only, giving forth the great Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh in a simplified form, expounding the Word of God from the sacred Scriptures of the different religions, and at the same time feeding the material body of man.  As each course was served, all would eat, then at its removal 'Abdu'l-Bahá would take up the thread of His discourse just where He had left off, with perfect continuity, so the material and spiritual meal progressed side by side.
The penetration of His Word was most marked.  He would tenderly express some beautiful thoughts, like the following, for instance, and magically they would be understood both by "mind and heart", and could never be forgotten:
"There is a kind of food which needs neither knife nor fork and of which every one may partake with perfect ease and benefit.  It is the food spiritual.  This food brings life and stimulation instead of indolence and apathy.  It brings peace and content to the one who partakes of it; the more food the more joy and peace.  For the Spirit is always eager to furnish sustenance to the soul.
"God be praised.  At this table we are joined in Spiritual relationship.  We are all of one family because we are under the Shadow of Bahá'u'lláh.  Look at the earth.  Of itself it is worthless, yet it can reflect the light and heat of the sun.  Clouds gather, the rains descend and
Page 284
the earth becomes fruitful.  In the same way the Spirit of God gives life to the soul of man and the Breeze of God awakens the soul from its sleep.  Peter was only a catcher of fishes yet his attainment was very great.  Amanias the High Priest was much greater in the eyes of the world yet he was deprived while Peter received the bounty of God.
"That which is most delicious in the world of existence is love.  Love is the best condiment. ...  For instance, the food on this table is nothing, indeed very simple; yet because it is prompted by love it is delicious.
"The Lord's Supper of Christ was indeed a very common thing; but because there was excessive love among the individual members who convened there, that table surpassed the royal tables, and it was established as the Lord's Supper.  Even now at this time it is known as such.  This was due to the love which existed between Jesus Christ and the disciples."
__________
It is hard to bring to the Western mind, so filled with the material things of life, and with the "pomp and circumstance" of the social and ritualistic customs, an adequate description of this remarkable table, for the environment that surrounded it was one unknown in this "land of the free".  Picture if you will one whose rank was that of the oldest son of a Prince of Persia, who had known vast wealth and every luxury His country afforded, imprisoned forty years because of His faith in the Message of Universal Brother hood and Unity given forth by His Father, Bahá'u'lláh, the Revealer of the Bahá'í Revelation and His promulgation of these Divine Ideals.  Stripped of all wealth, all of the simplest comforts of life, a prisoner amid the scum of the Orient, the felons of Syria, yet creating about Him an atmosphere of absolute spirituality, purity, beauty and refinement.  A prison home with its stark, bare whitewashed walls and meagre furniture, without the walls of its gardens the rabble of 'Akká, the poor diseased and degenerate, yet within its doors one found heaven; found a luminous "White Spot" in the midst of darkness and despair.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has said:  "The spiritual life is symbolized by simplicity and contemplation, combined with usefulness and well directed activity"; and this was the rule whereby all of the inmates of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's home governed their lives.
The now world famous dining room, in the centre of which stood the Master's table, faced the blue Mediterranean Sea, and overlooked the ancient double seawall of 'Akká.  There were one or two paintings, by Bahá'í artists, unframed and framed, which hung upon the wall; an old-fashioned clock which ticked drowsily; some modern cane seated chairs, the gift of some of the friends who had visited there; and the Master's table with its immaculate appointments.  There were always fragrant flowers upon it, and the simple Persian food was ever served with a
Page 285
spirit of utmost love, which added much to its delicious flavours.  The perfume of white jasmine and of attar of roses filled the air.  In one corner near the door of entrance stood a basin of water, in which 'Abdu'l-Bahá, according to an Oriental custom, always washed His hands after eating.
Horace Holley in his Modern Social Religion has so beautifully described this the Master's table in these words:  "To 'Abdu'l-Bahá, as a Teacher and friend, came men and women from every race, religion and nation, to sit at His table, like favoured guests, questioning Him about the social, spiritual or moral program each had most at heart; and after a stay lasting from a few hours to many months, returning home, inspired, renewed, and enlightened.  The world surely never possessed such a guest-house as this.
"Within its doors the rigid castes of India melted away, the racial prejudice of Jew, Christian and Muslim became less than a memory; and every convention save the essential law of warm hearts and aspiring minds broke down, banned and forbidden by the unifying sympathy of the Master's house.  It was like King Arthur and the Round Table, but an Arthur who knighted women as well as men, and sent them away not with the sword but with the Word."
It was indeed the supper of Divine Love, of Unity and spiritual communion.  Here Buddhists, Pársís, Zoroastrians, Muslims, Christians, Jews, and all other faiths met and in perfect love and unity, at that blessed table, "broke bread together", in the Kingdom of Divine Love.  No greater symbol of unity could be given in the Orient than this breaking of bread together, for it stands as a symbol of recognition and union.  This in itself has been one of the great miracles performed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá-what greater one could we ask?  To take these hostile races and religions, that outside of the walls of that prison home were at war with each other, their hearts filled with hatred and oppression-and through the Power of the Love of God, which flowed through Him to merge them all into one.  This is the miracle of miracles, and the one upon which the salvation of the world depends.  Without this unity and love it needs must perish.
__________
During one evening meal, at the Master's table, as the writer sat next to Him listening to His words of infinite wisdom, she looked at a glass filled with water in front of her place, and the thought involuntarily flashed through her mind, with a great yearning, "Oh! if only 'Abdu'l-Bahá would take my heart and empty it of every preconceived idea and earthly desire, just as one would take this glass and empty it, and then refill it with divine Love and understanding."  It was just a flash of consciousness, yet 'Abdu'l-Bahá seemed to read it.  He was in the midst of His discourse; He stopped abruptly (but no one seemed to notice it) and addressed His attendant who served the friends.  He said but a few words in Persian to him, then continued His conversation.  No one's attention was interrupted by
Page 286
the circumstance; all were listening eagerly to His every word said to them.  The attendant came quietly up behind the writer, reached over and removed her glass from the table and taking it over to the corner of the room, emptied its contents of water into the water basin, then returned the empty glass to its former place.  Still no one noticed what had happened.  'Abdu'l-Bahá continued to speak, the while reaching over and taking the water bottle on the table in His hand, and in the most casual manner, still talking on the subject of His discourse, refilled her empty glass, then set the water-bottle back in its place.  No one save the writer and 'Abdu'l-Bahá knew what had transpired.  Her heart was filled with unspeakable joy.  This proved conclusively that the inner most thoughts and the innermost desires of the hearts of all present were an open book to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and that His love encompassed all.
To have sat at the Master's table, and to have heard Him say:  "You are gathered together at this table, so may you be gathered together in the Kingdom, and as you are with Me today, so shall you be throughout all the worlds of God", is to know what the Reality of the Lord's Supper truly is and to have received God's Benediction.


XVIII:11, February 1928
page 350
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Consider the influence of the Word of God, that although people of totally different temperament, religion, culture and ideas, live in the Pilgrim House [used for the guests of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's family] never do we hear even a faint whisper of ill-feeling against each other; they are welded together by the Alchemy of Truth.  If you take ten bars of iron and tie them together no matter how closely, they will not become one.  But when a metallurgist comes on the scene, he takes the ten bars, melts them in the furnace and casts them in one mould.  Only through this fiery process will their atoms commingle with each other, become united and inseparable.
This is the work that Bahá'u'lláh has done and is doing.  He has not tied together the iron bars-the religions of the world-with the rope of indulgent tolerance or ordinary amenities of human existence which are liable to break at any time, but with the fire of the Love of God He has melted them first, and then casting them in one mould of spiritual brotherhood, He has rendered the most marvellous services to the world of humanity.  Bahá'u'lláh is this Divine Metallurgist, and those who have deep insight and look around the world witness daily the workings of the principle of fusion.3


XVIII:12, March 1928
page 366
Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania
Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana
Martha L. Root
Miss Root's first audience with Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania was on 30 January 1926, in Cotroceni Palace, in Bucharest.  This magazine had an article in June, describing that remarkable and significant visit-Editor
Coming from Geneva and the League of Nations, with stops at Trieste and Belgrade, the writer arrived in Bucharest on 5 October 1927.  It was not this eager, colourful "Paris of the Balkans"-so fascinating to tourists, so different from any other city-that had drawn her.  Calea Victoria, Bucharest's fashionable thoroughfare, that is always so thronged one wonders how the many motor cars and bevies of horse-drawn carriages ever ''arrive'' through such a narrow, picturesque moving picture of aristocratic Rumanian life, was just as interesting as before.  She liked riding through it all again, coming up from the train to her small hotel.
However, her real visit to Bucharest, aside from her lectures on Bahá'u'lláh's Principles and her newspaper articles, was to bring the love and the sympathy of Bahá'ís all over the world to Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania.  The Queen at that time was in the period of great mourning for her husband, His Majesty King Ferdinand, who had passed on 20 July.
All the royal family was spending the month of October in Sinaia at the Queen's palace, Peleshor, which is just beside the greater palace, Pelesh.  The two are one estate, but Peleshor is especially the home of the Queen, where she has her books and does much of her writing in summer.
Word came through Madame Simons Lahovary, Lady in Waiting, that Her Majesty would receive the visitor on 9 October.  This was purely a favour, because at this time the Queen was not seeing anyone.  The writer went to Sinaia, four hours distant, by one of the fast express trains, the afternoon of 8 October.  There was a pouring cold rain, but through the storm one could catch glimpses of what magnificent forests, what glorious scenery, have these
Page 367
"Transylvanian Alps," these Carpathian Mountains, whose heart is Sinaia.
Next morning the air was fresh and bracing and the sun was shining lovingly over this Sinaia, one of the most beautiful little summer resorts of fashion.  The villas grace the mountain slopes as jewels in a tiara of autumnal glory.  The Bahá'í decided to walk to the palace Peleshor to enjoy the thrill of passing through those enchanting roadways leading gracefully up and up, and to see at close range the splendid little seventeenth century church and monastery, shining like a pearl of purest white in this diadem of mountain splendour.  Deep in her heart, too, was the longing to go on foot and humbly to the first Queen of the whole world who had publicly written of Bahá'u'lláh's great Principles for this universal cycle.  Her Majesty Queen Marie's grandmother, Queen Victoria, of Great Britain, had said openly of Bahá'u'lláh's Teachings:  "If these are from God, they will stand!" and she had preserved His Tablet (letter) to her for later generations to see and read.  In the centuries ahead when Bahá'u'lláh's Teachings are lived and fully understood, the name  of Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania will stand as the first Queen who wrote and explained the power of these universal principles to bring the permanent peace.
Walking in that paradise of natural beauty, the writer ascended the roadway slopes and passed through that white court, where the Rumanian church stood in its ivory loveliness and the famous old monastery stood loyally beside it.  It is the church of the Royal Family, where unnumbered prayers have been offered for Rumania, this country with its dramatic history, more tragic, more swift than the masterpieces of the poets.  It is the church where His Majesty the little King Mihai goes to service and where his seventh birthday, 25 October, would soon be celebrated in a very great way.  Perhaps to this very spot Jesus Christ's trustworthy Disciple, Andrew, had come, for Rumanian tradition says that Andrew, from that faithful Band of Eleven, came to Rumania to bring the Glad-tidings of the Christ.  How well he had done it!  For this Sunday morning, after TWO THOUSAND YEARS, all Sinaia, all Rumania, had already gathered very early to sing praises to Christ!
The roadway from the church led up directly into the great park, picturesque with broad, sweeping landscapes and century old trees which showed their generations of care.  The writer walked on past the magnificent immense Palace Pelesh, where King Ferdinand, with his Queen wife's arms about him lifting him higher, had courageously passed from this home into the House of Many Mansions promised by His Lord, for King Ferdinand was a devout and true Catholic.  How well the writer remembered seeing him two years before, that morning in Cotroceni Palace in Bucharest, where she was waiting a moment in a small drawing-room just before she was taken into the great music room to be presented to Her Majesty the Queen!  The King was about to pass through this small drawing-room with some friends, but seeing the American he took them through another salon.  He had appeared so tall, so noble, so serious!
Coming to the architecturally smaller Palace Peleshor, built by the late King Carol for King Ferdinand and Queen Marie and their children, the pedestrian found it situated in a perfect setting of terraced gar-
Page 368
dens.  If the royalty of the world have more beautiful environment for country palaces than this in Rumania, the writer has never seen them.
Palace Peleshor is large-it isn't small, only it seems so, because it stands near the great Palace Pelesh.  (The Palace Pelesh takes its name from the little mountain stream called Pelesh which passes through the place.)
What a feeling of silent, unutterable sympathy one has coming to this palace where Her Majesty Queen Marie and Her Royal Highness Ileana, where His Majesty the little King Mihai and Her Royal Highness Princess Helen, His Royal Highness Prince Nicolas, Their Majesties King George and Queen Elizabeth, of Greece, were staying for a few weeks, and each was deeply missing the loved one who had gone from among them!
Ladies in Waiting stood in the great hall to receive the visitor.  They were the same fine women who had greeted her two years before in Cotroceni Palace, but now they were dressed all in black.  One explained that Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana was still at the church, but had left word she would receive the guest when she returned a little later.  The other Lady in Waiting took the writer up the broad, circular open stairway to the Queen's drawing-room on the next floor.
Her Majesty Queen Marie stood in the centre of this luxurious salon where the sunshine yellow, soft colours blended into a harmony of pastels.  How beautiful she was.  All in black draperies, with bands of white about her head and binding the wrists!  Only a great artist could have designed such a mourning costume as she wore that day, but the Queen is an artist in everything she wears, and does, and says.  But it is the radiance in her eyes and the tender smile one loved most and will remember longest.  Her welcome was solemn, sacred, cordial.  When she heard the deep greetings from the friends she replied with a wonderful message to the Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause, Shoghi Effendi, and to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's sister, who is called The Greatest Holy Leaf, and to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's wife, The Holy Mother.  She added:  "Tell them, also, I hope some time to go to Jerusalem and 'Akká and Haifa.  I should like to pray at both graves and to meet the Family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá."
Page 369
She sends this message to the Bahá'í's of the United States:  "I am so happy to be able to thank, through the Bahá'í magazine, The Star of the West, all those Bahá'í friends in America who sent me the lovely bouquets in all the cities through which I passed.  How it touched my heart!  Wherever I came, those nosegays always on my table, nothing persona1, never saying who had brought them, never able to thank anyone, just sent with the love of the Bahá'ís of those cities, went straight to my heart!  No one ever understood how much those bouquets meant to me!
"I am so happy to think I have been able in any way to further a Cause which, I am sure, is destined to bring happiness, if not to the world, to all those who really have understanding of what is the real meaning of God."
Her Majesty Queen Marie, in her daily article during a year for an American syndicate, touched on all subjects, and the four articles which she wrote about Bahá'u'lláh's Teachings show the love the Queen feels for this Message that will bring so much happiness to the world.  She could do in one hour what some people might work for ten years to accomplish.  Yet she said:  "I carry it on humbly.  I have been a groper and life has taught me many things.  It is logical that this Message of Bahá'u'lláh should come to me.  Ever since I received these books they have been my dearest spiritual reading next to the Bible.  I am sure they will bring the same blessing to all those to whom they come."
She spoke about teaching the Cause and said that if one wishes to give another truth, he should do it humbly.  People who teach should not make one feel he is lower down than they are.  She admired so much the spirit of selflessness found in the Teachings.  She, herself, certainly is evanescent in her service, this Queen who possesses one of the keenest intellects, who is deeply intuitive, who is outspoken in her manner, penetrating in her testimony and always courageous in her stand.  She said:  "With bowed head I recognize that I, too, am but a channel and I rejoice in the knowledge."
The writer told her Majesty how these open letters had been translated into scores of languages and ten million people in one continent alone had read them.  She explained, too, what a balm they had been to those suffering persecutions for the Cause.  This gracious Queen replied:  "I am very thankful; I take it as a sign that God accepted my humble tribute."
Her Majesty Queen Marie, continuing, said that one must begin this Movement with the younger generation.  She thought that the best book to give out to people explanatory of the Teachings is Dr J. E. Esslemont's book, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era.  When the writer asked her about the Balkans and how to promote all these principles of universal education, universal auxiliary language, the new solution of the economic problem by which every child in every country may have education and the welfare of the peasants be improved, she replied:  "The Balkan lands, being nearer the East, are always on the defensive; it is because they have been ill-treated coerced and more betrayed by other countries.  They become suspicious of anything that brings a new message, fearing it may be underhand, that there maybe some ill motive back of it all.  One can make a good beginning by showing them and all the rest of
Page 370
the world how comprehensive these Teachings are, how they hurt no one's feelings.  The booklets and books should be well translated and well printed in these different languages."
The Queen has read nearly every book that has been published on these Teachings.  She studies them and knows their truth.  Several of these books were beside her.  Her Majesty Queen Marie received with very great pleasure, that morning, the sacred gift which the writer had brought and presented from the dear Bahá'í's of faraway Mashhad, chief town of that Province in Persia.  It was an illumined sheet, on which was inscribed a Prayer of Bahá'u'lláh.  It was adorned and blessed in the centre with a lock of Bahá'u'lláh's own shining hair.  She loved it and will have a frame specially de signed for it, and in the oval she will place a small photograph of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, she so deeply appreciated this treasure.  It is indeed a glorious gift, for no one else in Europe has a similar remembrance from Bahá'u'lláh.  Speaking, too, of the illumined work, the polished gold of the letters, the Queen said:  "It is in the most perfect taste of all the Orient!  I know how rare and beautiful it is!"
Then Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana came into the drawing room, accompanied by her brother, His Royal Highness Prince Nicolas.  They had just come up from the Rumanian Church a little after ten o'clock.  (Services are early in Rumania.)  The Princess is very young, very beautiful; she is serious, she is sweet.  One saw at a glance that she is much interested in spiritual realities.  She invited the writer to come up to her room on the third floor for a little talk.  The room of this Rumanian was charming and full of sunshine.  There were, perhaps, more than one hundred pink roses in the different gold bowls and in crystal vases; they gave an exquisite charm and fragrance to the apartment.  On the walls were pictures from the life of Christ, a portrait of Jeanne d'Arc and two artistic companion pieces of maidens dancing on the greensward.  Beside the long couch close to the three great and very high windows stood a little, low table for books, with shelves underneath for more books.  Princess Ileana, like her mother, is a great reader.  On this little table was a tiny photograph of 'Abdu'l-Bahá which she had received the day before.  Here, also, was a brass bowl of the delicate pink fragrant roses.  With her religious
Page 371
and other books she had nearly all the works of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá which are published in English.  A very beautiful picture of Christ hung above her couch.  In an open bay window alcove, also flooded with sunshine, was her writing desk.  It was well arranged and one could see that it is a place where much work is done.  She said to her visitor:  "I do not see how you ever get so much writing and other work done!  I am obliged to get up very early, morning to get my correspondence finished."
Then a little heart to heart talk followed.  This young Princess is enthusiastic and keenly eager to help the thousands of girls in her country.  She does wonderful work in the Young Women's Christian Association, the Girl Guides and in the Rumanian Church, and she will translate two little booklets about Bahá'u'lláh's peace principles into the Rumanian language.  She is devoted to the work of the Rumanian Church and to the Rumanian people; she tries to work with them and for them.  She spoke of having given Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era to one friend at Court and she added:  "He said he read it and loved it!"
Her brother, His Royal Highness Prince Nicolas, came in two or three times during the conversation.  He is pleasant and delightful, and so devoted to his mother and sister; he helps them in everything which interests them.  So the morning was spent, and when the writer was leaving this dear Princess said:  "I will come down with you, perhaps you may not know your way."  Just then His Royal Highness Prince Nicolas came from his study, which was near.  He swung into step with a grace and ease that showed he must have been doing it like that all his life, and, smiling and courteous, be came with his sister.
This little outer visit to Palace Peleshor in Sinaia had an inner significance.  The real audience with Her Majesty Queen Marie and her young daughter, Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana, was that souls met that day and spoke together of the realities of this life and of eternity.  The Queen said to her children that morning, as the conversation turned to life after death:  "Papa knows; he sees that all we are trying to do is constructive."  Just how constructive for Rumania, for all the Balkans and all the rest of the world the study of these Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh for world understanding really is, the future will soon show.  These Royal radiant souls are planting seeds of spiritual world co-operation which, throughout eternity, will bear harvests.


XIX:1, April 1928
page 3
'Abdu'l-Bahá
A new era of divine consciousness is upon us.  The world of humanity is going through a process of transformation.  A new race is being developed.  The thoughts of human brotherhood are permeating all regions.


XIX:2, May 1928
page 53
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter I
This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America is based on material and notes corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and which He had turned over to Dr Baghdádí at the time He was leaving this country.  The twofold purpose of this series, which will continue for several months, is, in the words of the author, 'First to bring back to the memory of the believers the time of the incomparable days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to them and to remind them of His words, His instructions and His admonitions; and, secondly, to give a picture of His visit so that later believers who did not have the blessing of seeing Him, may benefit by reading a brief history.'-Editor.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, the revered world leader of the Bahá'í Movement, arrived in New York from England on the White Star liner, Cedric, 11 April 1912.  It was His first visit to the United States, and, aside from His short stay in Egypt and a visit to France and England in 1911, his first travel away from forty years enforced sojourn in the prison city of 'Akká in Palestine (the Holy Land), where He and His Father, Bahá'u'lláh, the Founder of the Bahá'í religion, were exiled by the Turkish Government.  He seemed, however, to fully understand and appreciate the modern scientific and industrial civilization of America.  His utterances then and later throughout His travels in America gave praise to the energy, the initiative and the achievement of the American people.  The skyline of New York particularly interested 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and He called the big skyscrapers "the minarets of the Western world's commerce and industry."
On the pier to meet Him were, besides many of the Bahá'ís, a great number of people, among them the representatives of the press who had eagerly awaited His arrival.  "I am here," 'Abdu'l-Bahá told an Evening World reporter, "to unify the religions of the world, to talk in the interest of universal peace.  I have no creed to preach.  I have no doctrine to propound.  My word is the word of love ....  Do not worship the Lantern-worship the Light."
Another reporter asked what Bahá'í meant.  "It means," answered 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "to love all the world, to love humanity, to serve it, to work for universal peace and universal brotherhood."
Accompanied by His interpreters and secretaries, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the Hotel Ansonia.  In the afternoon He visited the home of Mr and Mrs Edward B. Kinney, where Catholics, Protestants, Jews and Muslims had gathered to meet Him, for 'Abdu'l-Bahá made no distinction in religions, creeds or races.
Though He was about sixty years of age, forty years in the "Most Great Prison" at 'Akká had made Him appear older.  He was of medium height, but had the appearance
Page 53
of a tall man because of His erect form.  His long silvery hair flowed over His shoulders.  His beard and moustache were thin but full.  His forehead was broad, full and high.  His nose was aquiline.  His eyes light blue and penetrating.  He wore a voluminous outer coat (called an 'aba) made of grey wool and which reached almost to the floor, and His turban was white.  In a word, His garments were the same as those worn by all the Prophets of the East.
"Having heard of the numerous organizations for peace and arbitration, and because of My great interest in these subjects, I have come here," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "to advocate the unity and solidarity of humanity.  That is the essence of My teachings.  All nations and all religions must be united.  By that unity perfect peace would reign among men.  Strife and animosity are due to misunderstandings.  If these misunderstandings be removed then unity can be accomplished.
"All the Prophets of God were Manifestations of Truth and Reality.  But because imitations have crept into religions, divisions and misunderstanding have resulted.  These imitations cannot be found in the reality of religion.  Human beings should refer to the original foundations, and -then six thousand years of strife and warfare will vanish.  My purpose is to bring about the oneness of humanity and to secure accord and fellowship among all mankind, so that all may dwell together finally as one family.  They were so originally."
On 12 April 1912, not less than one thousand Bahá'ís and inquirers eagerly frequented the homes of Mr and Mrs Howard MacNutt and Miss Phillips, where they had the privilege of meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
A number of clergymen called on Him the following day and heard these words from His lips:
"Materialism and spirituality have always kept pace together.  Now materialism has gone ahead, the divine foundation is forgotten and is being left behind.  Among the causes of this failure is that religious leaders have presented religion as if it were opposed to science and reason, and have promoted imitations.
Page 54
Therefore you must bring about a conformity of religion and science.
"The appearance of the Manifestations of God is like the appearance of the spring season.  Undoubtedly the spring season does not last permanently and eternally.  Now we are hopeful that the divine springtime may again become the cause of refreshing the garden of the world of existence."
That afternoon the Bahá'ís had the pleasure of meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the home of Mr and Mrs Alexander Morten.
On His way home, after glancing at New York's high buildings and its crowded streets, 'Abdu'l-Bahá remarked to His party, "America has a wonderful future.  But these extremely high buildings and the great crowds are depressing to my heart and are not good for the health of the people."
__________
Dr Percy Stickney Grant was not the first minister to invite 'Abdu'l-Bahá to speak in his church, but his was the first invitation that 'Abdu'l-Bahá accepted.  There was little room left in that church when the eleven o'clock service on 14 April began.  "It is our privilege this morning," said Dr Grant, "to hear one who has come out of the East, a new and great herald of good will; one bearing a message of love to all mankind.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is a Master of the things of the Spirit.  He comes from that part of the world where men meditate; where contemplation was born.  He teaches the fundamental unity of all religions-a truth in which this congregation believes profoundly and we welcome here one who may help the material fervour of the Occident to gain a new peace by the infiltration of the harmony of the Orient."
'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke in Persian, an interpreter translating a phrase at a time.  "Our material civilization," 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "has progressed greatly with the perfection of the crafts and the forward steps of material science, but our spiritual civilization, that which is based on divine morals, has declined and become degraded.  We should strive to make our material civilization the purest possible medium, the most unclouded glass, through which the light of our spiritual civilization must shine."
"One of the things that supports a spiritual civilization is Peace," He said, "and the most pressing need of politics is universal peace."  But the oneness of humanity human solidarity-which has been the message of all the Prophets, will be achieved only through spiritual power, for neither racial distinctions nor patriotism can further it.  The oneness of humanity will come with the supremacy of spiritual civilization, and not while, as now, we are submerged in a sea of materialism.  "The cause (the Bahá'í Cause) is progressing in the Orient," He concluded, "and the heavenly civilization is daily making itself more manifest."
These things 'Abdu'l-Bahá said in the few moments that He spoke before He returned to His seat beside the altar.
At the taking of the collection
Page 55
'Abdu'l-Bahá made a generous contribution.
During the prayer He stood with forearms extended, the palms of His hands turned upward, not downward, and as He finished He passed these over His eyes and face.  A sense of indescribable joy and exhilaration seemed to be with many in the congregation, and not a few lingered afterward to see Him.
In the afternoon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at a union meeting of Advanced Thought Centres, at the Carnegie Lyceum.  His address here, and that of the morning at the Church of the Ascension, both with a wealth of parable, are published in full in the addresses of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America, under the title, The Promulgation of Universal Peace.
The evening of 14 April and a part of the 15th, were given to visitors and friends who came to see Him.
__________
A remarkable coincidence happened on 15 April.  Lo and behold! Mr Hudson Maxim and Mr W. H. Short appeared at the same time at 'Abdu'1-Baha's door.  Mr Maxim was one of the greatest inventors of arms and explosives, and Mr Short was Secretary of the New York Peace Society.  The interview in substance was as follows:  Mr Maxim stated that he himself was, like 'Abdu'l-Bahá, a promoter of universal peace only from a different angle; that he was devoting his life to the invention of the most dreadful instruments of war and most costly so that it would never pay the nations to fight.
'Abdu'l-Bahá explained that the result of modern discoveries and inventions was more destructive than ever before.  He gave as an example the history of ancient wars between Persia and the Romans who fought for a period of twenty years, but only six thousand lives were lost in action.  But now, with our scientific methods of fighting, many thousands of lives can be destroyed in one day.  Finally 'Abdu'l-Bahá advised Mr Maxim to invent a gun of love that it might give and prolong life, so that his name would be written with a pen of gold on the pages of history and throughout the ages the people would be able to say, how wonderful it is-the greatest inventor of war instruments has invented the gun of life and peace!  This thrilling interview is published in the Star of the West, III:7, p. 4.
On the afternoon of that day the Bahá'ís met 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the home of Mr and Mrs Mountfort Mills.
On 16 April, He visited the home of Mr and Mrs A. P. Dodge, where a number of friends were invited to meet Him.
On 17 April, an Inter-Racial Amity meeting was held at the home of Mr and Mrs Edward B. Kinney.  Here, addressing the white and coloured friends, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Always the East has been the dawning-point of light and the rising-place of effulgences.  But the blessings of the coloured and white people under the creative effect and influence of the outpouring of the Sun of Reality resemble the gathering of roses of variegated colours.  This difference of colour adds charm and beauty, and is conducive to the wealth of their splendour."
The dinner served to the friends that evening was prepared and cooked by 'Abdu'l-Bahá's own hands.
On 18 April, two public meetings were held at the home of Mr and Mrs Marshall L. Emery; and in the evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at the Bowery Mission, where more than four hundred of the poor received His spiritual comfort and material gifts.
Page 56
Every act of 'Abdu'l-Bahá had a spiritual connotation; therefore it is of great interest to note his open-handed way of dispensing charity to these poor men who were down and out, most of them.  He carried with Him to the Bowery Mission the amount of two hundred dollars specially ordered from the bank in twenty-five-cent pieces.  Every one of the four hundred men received not only a dinner but one or more of these quarters directly from the hand of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  That their hearts were touched is expressing it most inadequately.  Many of them wept tears of emotion.  Thus did 'Abdu'l-Bahá demonstrate the need of combining material and spiritual blessings and that the Bahá'í Movement stands for the perfect manifestation of both these important phases of civilization.
19 April was the day of bidding farewell to the friends, and on the following day He left for Washington, D.C.
In His contact with Western civilization, how universal 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed Himself!  This Servant of God from the Orient, landing from the prison city of 'Akká into the heart of the Occident, emerged unprepared on the streets of New York, the greatest city of Western civilization, and found Himself perfectly at home!  The civilization of the Occident seen here in its most striking modernistic form did not amaze or repel Him.  As He walked the streets of the Metropolis with His majestic mien, He seemed as perfectly at home here as in the setting of the Orient whence He had come.  Nor did He seem to the people of New York-even the blasé reporters-the object of peculiarity.  Their attitude toward Him was one of great respect and appreciation.  In fact from His first landing upon the docks, His way was marked only with admiration and reverence.
(To be continued)


XIX:2, May 1928
page 56
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"The Prophets of God, one and all, Christ Himself, as well as the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh), have all appeared and raised the call with the one purpose of transforming the world of man into the Kingdom of God.  Their common aim was to turn the earthly into heavenly, darkness into light, things that are satanic into things Divine.  They strove to establish the reign of harmony and love amongst the children of men, to unfold to their eyes the fundamental unity of all mankind, to demolish the foundations of differences in the world, and to confer upon it the imperishable blessings of eternal life."


XIX:3, June 1928
page 69
An experience with 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Anise Rideout
It was my great privilege to be in New York during the last days spent by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America.  There was a question which I greatly longed to ask, but fearing the reply would be that I must talk to people, everywhere, I hesitated.
Finally, on the last day, almost the last moment of my stay, it came to me that it was cowardly to hesitate.  On that day, as I came into His Presence, He immediately said, 'Are there any questions?'  At once I asked the question, 'Which is the best way to give the Bahá'í Message?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá's Face became very serious, His Voice loud as He answered in these words:
'The first thing to do is to acquire a thirst for Spirituality, then Live the Life!  Live the Life!  Live the Life!  The way to acquire this thirst is to meditate upon the future life.  Study the Holy Words, read your Bible, read the Holy Books, especially study the Holy Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh; Prayer and Meditation, take much time for these two.  Then will you know this Great Thirst, and then only can you begin to Live the Life!
'To live the Life you must be the very kindest woman, you must be the most pure, you must be absolutely truthful, and live a perfectly moral life.
'Visit your neighbours when they are sick or in trouble, offer your services to them, try to show them that you are longing to serve them.
'Feed the poor, divide what you have.  Be contented to remain where God has placed you; be faithful in your care of those to whom He has trusted you, never waver in this-show by your life you have something different, so that all will see and will say, 'What has this person that I have not?'
'Show the world that in spite of the utmost suffering, poverty, sickness, you have something which gives you comfort, strength and peace-that you are happy-serene-satisfied with all that is in your life.
'Then they, too, will want what you possess-and will need no further teaching-after you tell them what it is.'


XIX:3, June 1928
page 87
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter II, Washington, D.C.
This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America is based on material and notes corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and which He had turned over to Dr Baghdádí at the time He was leaving this country.  The twofold purpose of this series, which will continue for several months, is, in the words of the author, 'First to bring back to the memory of the believers the time of the incomparable days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to them and to remind them of His words, His instructions and His admonitions; and, secondly, to give a picture of His visit so that later believers who did not have the blessing of seeing Him, may benefit by reading a brief history.'-Editor.
'Abdu'l-Bahá reached the city of Washington on 20 April 1912, accompanied only by an interpreter.  He went to the home of Mr and Mrs Arthur Jeffrey Parsons.  In the evening He addressed the second annual conference of the Persian American Educational Society.  The meeting was held in the Lecture Hall of the Public Library, and every seat and all available standing room was occupied by an audience eager to hear Him.
When He entered the hall, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was greeted by the audience all Bahá'ís and their friends and guests rising.  'It is an evident fact,' said He in His address, 'that for Persia there is no better government to use as a model than that of America.  Persia offers virgin soil for American commerce.  In Persia all the mineral resources, and indeed all of the material resources, are latent in the soil and in the people.  Perfect amity should be established between Persia and America, whether it be in material bonds or in spiritual bonds.'
After He had spoken, and when He was seated on the platform, hundreds pressed around Him, seeking to grasp His hand.
In an interview after His address, some one announced the sad news of the sinking of the Titanic.  'Abdu'l-Bahá declared that the disaster to the White Star liner Titanic, much as He deplored it, was only an outward expression of the too rapid development of the age.  Progress is too fast.  Both Americans and Europeans seem to be possessed of the mania for speed.  He said:  'It is true in this country in particular growth in all directions has progressed too rapidly.  Moderation should be practiced in all things.  Be temperate, even in the size of the ships you build and in their speed; in your railroads and the schedules you expect your trains to maintain.  It was a pitiful waste of life that came because of the effort to save a few hours in time-rushing a great vessel at top speed when it was known there was danger from icebergs.'
On the following day, 21 April 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at the Universalist Church.  The text of His address in part is as follows:
'Whatever the minister has said (in his introductory remarks) is an evidence of high morals and service to the world of humanity, truly commendable and worthy of praise, for it is opposed to natural prejudices which for six thousand years have made unstable the world of humanity.  How many wars were fought, how much discord has occurred, how much hatred has appeared amongst mankind.  But inasmuch as this age is the age of the revelation of reality, praise be to God! the thoughts are being directed toward reality and the souls are ready for the oneness of the world of humanity.  The ocean of truth is surging and the mirage of imitations is day by day passing
Page 88
away.  The foundation of the existing religions is one foundation, and that foundation is reality and the cause of unity and love of humanity and the means of the progress of mankind.  But after every one of the Divine Manifestations, that light of reality became obscured.  The darkness of superstitions and imitations crept in.  Darkness befell the world of humanity.  Day by day bitterness increased to such a degree that nations became antagonistic, and to such an extent that were it not for political hindrances they would have crushed and annihilated each other.
Now it is not enough!  We must investigate reality.  We must put away these superstitions.  Praise be to God!  We all are the servants of one God.  We are all under the shade of His bounty.  We are recipients of His bestowals.  God is kind to all, why should we be unkind?  God is at peace with all, why should we be at war?  At most some are ignorant; they must be trained.  Some are sick and ailing; they must be healed.  The sick must not be despised.  The child must not be insulted.  Efforts must be made to secure a remedy and healing.
All the prophets have come to educate and develop the immature souls into maturity; to establish unity and love amongst mankind, not bitterness and hatred, for God has wished all good for His servants, not evil.  He who wishes evil for His servants is against God and is not following the example of God, nay rather, he is following the example of Satan.  For the attribute of God is mercy, and the attribute of Satan is hate.  He who is kind to the servants is following the example of God, and he who is unkind to the servants is against God.  For God is absolute mercy, perfect love; and Satan is absolute hate and utter bitterness.
Therefore know that in every meeting where there is love, that meeting is the meeting of the Merciful One; and wherever there is hatred, that is satanic suggestion.  The Divine Prophets appeared that the souls may become manifestations of the Merciful One, and to establish love and affection in the hearts.'
__________
'Man has two aspects or natures-merciful or divine and an animal aspect.  The merciful aspect is peace, happiness, love and faithfulness.  But the animal aspect is strife, discord, war and battle.  If the animal aspect dominates in man, he becomes lower than an animal.  If the divine aspect dominates, he becomes an angel of the Lord.  The teachings of the Prophets were for this:  that the animal aspect may be conquered, so that the souls that are captives of nature may be saved and the heavenly aspect may dominate.  That divine aspect consists of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.  It consists of the 'second
Page 89
Birth'.  He who possesses that aspect is a well wisher of all; he is kind to all the creatures; he has no bitterness toward any creed, and he shuns no religion.
'For the foundation of the divine religions is one.  If we investigate that foundation, we become united; but if we follow imitations, we disagree because imitations are different.  The foundation of the divine religions is conducive to unity and fellowship.  His Holiness Christ said, 'I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.  Howbeit, when he, the Spirit of Truth, is come, he shall guide you into all truth.'  This is the century when that Spirit of God has spoken and revealed all the truth; He has explained the validity of the religion of Christ, and delivered the people from, superstitions.  So that the basis of ignorance and bitterness may vanish, and the foundation of love may be established.  We must strive with soul and heart that this bitterness and hatred may disappear and this discord and strife may entirely pass away.'
__________
On 22 April 1912, a reception was held in honour of 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the home of Mr and Mrs Arthur Jeffrey Parsons to which the Bahá'ís and their friends were invited.  'Consider what the confirmations of Bahá'u'lláh have done,' said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'for they brought us to the home of one who with such love has prepared a feast in my name.  How the power and influence of Bahá'u'lláh has linked the East and the West, the divine outpouring is available and the merciful favours are complete.'
On 23 April 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at Howard University, and from there He went to the home of Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán for luncheon.  Here He said:  'Thanks must be offered to Bahá'u'lláh because it is His confirmations that stir the souls.  It is the blessings of the Abhá Beauty that change the hearts.  It is the re-enforcement of the Kingdom of Abhá that makes the mosquito an eagle, the ant a Solomon, the degraded the centre of honour.'
In the evening He spoke at the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church, and that was a real Inter-racial Amity Meeting.
On 24 April 1912, it was the privilege of the Bahá'í children of Washington to have 'Abdu'l-Bahá at their meeting.  He gave them the most helpful message, sweetened their little mouths with candy and blessed them with these words:  'Praise be to God!  These children are like a bouquet of roses in their utmost beauty, delicacy and sweetness.'
In the evening, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the white and coloured believers and their friends at the home of Mrs Dyer, a member of the coloured race, and after the meeting He remarked, 'Before entering the meeting I did not feel as if I would like to speak.  But as soon as I saw the unity and attraction of the coloured and white believers, I became interested and anxious and with perfect sincere love I spoke.  I have compared the harmony of the different colours to that of a pearl and ruby necklace.'
Later, while riding in a carriage on His way to the home of Mr Alexander Graham Bell, the famous telephone inventor, 'Abdu'l-Bahá very sweetly and softly chanted in Persian, 'O Bahá'u'lláh what hast Thou done?  O Bahá'u'lláh may my life be a sacrifice to Thee.  Through what sufferings and hardships Thou hast passed Thy days.  What calamities Thou didst endure.  But in the end, what a formidable foundation Thou hast laid.  What an evident banner Thou hast raised.'
When Mr Bell finished telling his own story namely, it was his love for his wife, who was totally deaf,
Page 90
that inspired him to invent an instrument that might help her hearing and while striving in that line, the instrument developed into the telephone-'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'Most of the great inventions were discovered in this way (by accident).  The search for Alchemy was the cause of the appearance of thousands of useful remedies, and by travelling from Europe to India in a straight line, the American Continent was discovered, etc.'
On 25 April 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to the Theosophical Society, and then He sent a message to the Esperantists.  Later, in a humorous mood, He said to Mrs Parsons, 'It is very difficult to have one like me as a guest.  Every guest and traveller has a limited number of friends with whom he makes special dates for visits, but you are forced all day long to be the entertainer of all.'
In the evening, addressing a large number of statesmen and Government officials at a banquet held in His honour at the home of Díyá Páshá, the Ambassador of Turkey, said, 'Tonight is a blessed night, worthy of rejoicing and thanksgiving for several reasons.  First, thanks be to God, we are in a country that is most prosperous and free.  Second, at a home which is related to the sublime Turkish Empire.  Third, we are the guests of His Excellency, the Ambassador, who is in the realm of morals shining like the sun.  Fourth, this meeting portrays the unity and harmony of the East and the West in a real figure, for His Excellency, the Ambassador of Turkey, is from the people of the East, his honoured son is here, and his revered wife is an American.  Likewise, the representative of Persia (Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán) is from the nobles of the East and his revered wife is also an American.  This is an evidence that the East and the West can be united and harmonized.  Undoubtedly the utmost desire of the people of power and affluence, the possessors of broad ideas and sound minds, is love amongst human beings;
Page 91
their highest hope is for unity and harmony amongst mankind.  In ages past this truth was not clear, but since this is the age of light and the century of science and progress of the world of humanity-through divine help and favour-this matter has attracted universal attention.  The members of the human family are in reality one; all are from one family, of one country and of one globe.  This is the age of the oneness of mankind and the passing away of superstitions of past centuries.  Every thoughtful person feels that this is the century of oneness and unity, and the imaginary prejudices are vanishing.  Therefore, we are hopeful that the misunderstandings amongst the nations may disappear, so that all may know that the first foundation of the Merciful One is the oneness of the world of humanity and the original aim of the Divine Manifestations is the training of mankind.  The divine religions are not the cause of discord, nor are they the means of hatred and animosity.  For the foundation of all religions is reality, and reality is one and cannot be multiplied.  These differences are caused by imitations.  For imitations differ; therefore, they become the cause of differences and quarrels.  This darkness of imitations has beclouded the Sun of Reality.  Now, thanks be to God, day by day, this darkness is vanishing; this separation shall soon disappear altogether; the Sun of Reality shall rise and shine; the banner of the oneness of the world of humanity and the tent of universal peace shall rise, and the world shall become a different world.
'I am thankful and grateful for the kindness of His Excellency the Ambassador, because he was the cause of gathering and uniting different people in this meeting.  Undoubtedly such meetings are worthy of thanks and praise.'
At the close of this meeting former President, Mr Theodore Roosevelt, called and had a wonderful visit with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
On the following morning, 26 April 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at All Souls Church, and in the evening He addressed a Woman's Suffragist meeting.  'One of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh,' He declared, 'is equal rights for men and women.  When Bahá'u'lláh uttered this principle, the people were stunned.'
On 27 April 1912, Mrs Arthur Jeffrey Parsons wished to offer a sum of money; but with infinite gentleness 'Abdu'l-Bahá advised her to 'distribute the money amongst the poor.'
At the luncheon hour, a most wonderful reception was held in honour of 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the home of Mrs Parsons, to which some three hundred statesmen, Senators, and scholars, including a judge of the Supreme Court, were invited.  It was a peerless reception.  When dinner and refreshments had been served and after every one in the audience had received 'Abdu'l-Bahá's answers to all important questions, there came a few moments of silence and quietness.  All the distinguished visitors seemed to be in a state of deep meditation, and the sign of their appreciation was clearly manifest by their extreme admiration for and highest reverence toward 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the 'Master' and the 'Great Teacher', as they called Him.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá broke the silence by saying to the judge of the Supreme Court, 'Just as there is unity amongst the United States, in like manner it is possible to have unity amongst the nations of the world.'
To a doctor He said, 'I am hopeful that you will raise the banner of universal peace.'
To a master mechanic and engineer He said, 'Just as at one school you are teaching engineering to different students, I hope that you may enlighten different people at the divine
Page 92
school by the truth of the foundation of divine religions.'
To Admiral Peary, discoverer of the North Pole, He said, 'I hope that you may discover the unknown of the world of the Kingdom.'
To the Archbishop he said, 'My hope is that these harmful imitations may be put away and you may promote the foundation of the teachings of Christ and banish the ceremonies which are opposed to science and contrary to the Truth.'
To the Ambassador of Switzerland He spoke of the importance of 'Divine Civilization'.
To a Senator He said, 'Just as you are striving for the welfare of America, you must also be the well wisher of all the countries and nations of the world.'
Finally, turning to the Judge, 'Abdu'l-Bahá asked what the verdict was.  'It is all right,' the Judge said, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá smiled.
28 April 1912, was farewell day, and before leaving the city of Washington, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke first to Mrs Parsons, then to all the friends who gathered around Him.  He said:  'It is springtime and we have had good meetings at your home.  I shall never forget.  I shall always ask divine confirmations for you, that in every way you may be confirmed both in material and spiritual things.  The physical world has an outer and an inner plane, for all existing things like a chain are linked together until the spiritual is attained, and finally become abstract realities.  We are hopeful these spiritual links may day by day become stronger and this heart communication, which is termed as inspiration, may become permanent.  When this connection is established, then physical separation will have no effect, and this station is holy and sanctified above words.'
To the friends he said, 'I hope that our meetings shall give everlasting results.  The oneness of the world of humanity and universal peace are the greatest blessings.'
While crossing the Potomac River, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'Whenever I see such views, I become saddened as I recall how much Bahá'u'lláh loved the beautiful green fields, of which a cruel imprisonment deprived Him for so many years.'
(To be continued)


XIX:4, July 1928
page 111
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter III-Chicago, D.C.
This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America is based on material and notes corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and which He had turned over to Dr Baghdádí at the time He was leaving this country.  The twofold purpose of this series, which will continue for several months, is, in the words of the author, 'First to bring back to the memory of the believers the time of the incomparable days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to them and to remind them of His words, His instructions and His admonitions; and, secondly, to give a picture of His visit so that later believers who did not have the blessing of seeing Him, may benefit by reading a brief history.'-Editor.
His arrival in Chicago, 29 April 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the Plaza Hotel, where the rejoicing Bahá'ís and their friends had followed Him from the railroad station.  'You have a beautiful city,' He said.  'The divine call was first raised in this city.  I am hopeful that in Chicago the Cause of God may obtain the highest efficacy.  Just as this city is lighted with electric light, I hope that it may become lighted with the Light of the Kingdom.
'Many meetings, both large and small, were held in Washington.  Night and day I had no rest.  Unity was established between the white and coloured people.  Many became believers.  Those who were not believers have become very near.  Nevertheless, I like Chicago very much, for the call of Bahá'u'lláh was first raised in this city.  I am hopeful that you may become confirmed in great services and that you may be in the utmost fellowship and love with each other.'
One of the believers asked for protection from tests and trials.  'The most severe tests were in Persia,' said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  'When property was confiscated, the friends were made martyrs, and not for a single moment was there any safety of life.'
Turning to the friends, said, 'I was longing exceedingly for your meeting.  Were it not for this longing, the favour of Bahá'u'lláh would not have been with us.  When I boarded the boat at Alexandria (Egypt) I was not feeling well.'
Looking from the window of His apartment in the Plaza Hotel, with Lincoln Park, Clark Street and North Avenue in full view, He said, 'These buildings have beautiful views.  The park, the streets and city lights can be seen.'
On 30 April 1912, the Bahá'ís of Chicago and newspaper reporters came to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Later, He spoke at Hull House, founded by Miss Jane Addams.  It was a real Inter-racial Amity meeting, for the large audience was composed of white and coloured people.  After the meeting, 'Abdu'l-Bahá noticed many children and unemployed labourers crowding and pushing each other to gain a glimpse of Him.  He stood in their midst, and into each hand He dropped a quarter or half dollar.
In the evening, at a public meeting arranged by the Bahá'ís of Chicago at the Masonic Temple, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke of the significance of temples and the importance of the Bahá'í Temple-the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
On 1 May 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá dedicated the Bahá'í Temple grounds in the beautiful village of Wilmette, near Chicago.  With an attractive trowel made of solid gold, handed to him by Miss Irene Holmes, 'Abdu'l-Bahá dug the earth to lay the corner stone.  He then called on a few of the friends to dig more earth on behalf of different nations and countries, that they also might share in the blessed occasion
Page 112
and be of those who were remembered.  Dr Ardishír Írání, formerly of India, but now residing in Washington, D.C., took the trowel in his hand and dug some of the earth on behalf of the Zoroastrian believers.  Áqá Siyyid Asadu'lláh represented the Muslim Bahá'ís.  This writer represented the Arabian Bahá'ís.  Qudsíyyih Ashraf represented the Oriental Bahá'í women.  The corner stone finally was laid by 'Abdu'l-Bahá's own hands.
There is a little history connected with this most favoured stone.  It is this:  When the Temple grounds were bought, Husayn Mazlún, an old Persian Bahá'í, was living in Chicago.  He was a hard working man and could not speak or write a single word in English.  But he felt that it was his duty to contribute something that might help the Temple.  He had nothing but a pure heart and a sincere purpose, and these qualities inspired him to procure a stone with the hope that perhaps some day it might be included with others that would become a part of the foundation or walls of the Temple.  So, with the help of Mrs Nettie Tobin, of Chicago, a solid white stone was obtained, and Husayn Mazlún carried it on his shoulders and back, to the Temple grounds.  But neither Husayn Mazlún, nor any one else, could have even dreamed that the stone was destined to be the corner stone of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, the first Bahá'í Temple in America, and that it would be laid by the hands of 'Abdu'l-Bahá with His eternal blessings upon it, and in the presence of an impressive gathering from the four corners of the earth.  Such is the fruit of a sincere action and such is the reward for the pure in heart.
2 May 1912, the Bahá'ís of Chicago and vicinity came to the Plaza Hotel very early in the morning, and this is what 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to them:  'The reason for travelling such a long distance and enduring hardships is for the ignition of light in the Occident, for in the Occidental countries there is great capacity.  The inhabitants are not so much captives of imitations and superstitions.  The high ideals can be rapidly spread.  Today the greatest ideal is service to the world of humanity and universal peace.'
In the afternoon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at the Federation of Women's Clubs, at Hotel La Salle, and also attended a reception held in His honour at the same hotel by the Bahá'í women of Chicago.
Later, one of the friends asked a question in regard to human capacity.  'People have different capacities,' said 'Abdu'l-Bahá. 'In some persons capacity is obtained entirely from natural powers.  This expression and appearance of natural capacity is dependent upon education and is subordinate to man's own efforts; that is to say, natural capacity without human education and efforts cannot appear perfectly and its perfection depends upon efforts and training.  The highest expression of man's capacity is, however, obtained through the training of the Divine Teacher of the world of humanity.'
Another friend asked about association with the wicked or evil doers.  'These are of two kinds,' explained 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'one kind where the harm returns to the evil doer himself, and he is not an assailant.  Undoubtedly such an evil doer must be awakened and trained with wisdom.  He is sick; he must be cured.  But the other kind, whose menace reaches others, and when association with such a person becomes the cause of immorality-in this case association with such a person is not permissible, except for those who are able to stop, train and win him, and as much as possible strive to improve his morals and uplift his character; otherwise, appeal should be made to the
Page 113
Centres of Justice to protect human society from the menacing deeds of such persons.  In the Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, too, association with all the people of different religions and the recognition of the oneness of mankind is enjoined; but also association with the wicked is prohibited, and it is shown how it is necessary to be careful of the deniers and negative people.'
On 3 May 1912, the Hindus of Chicago, most of them university students, were welcomed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Plaza Hotel.  Dr J. F. C. King accompanied the boys and became a Bahá'í.  As a dentist, Dr King is very successful and he is still residing in Chicago.
One of the friends asked about the time when the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár would be built.  'I am not going to discuss the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (the Bahá'í Temple),' 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied.  'It concerns the (National) Spiritual Assembly.  If I have to say anything about it, it must be built immediately.'
On 4 May 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at the Plymouth Congregational Church; and from there He went to the home of the minister, Dr Ford, where a luncheon was prepared for Him.  In the afternoon He spoke to the Theosophical Society at North-western University Hall.
To an inquirer about the future of the Orient, 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'It cannot progress except through an ideal power and the Divine Cause.  Every Divine Manifestation was sent to a people and country that outwardly never had any chance for safety and prosperity.  But because they came under the protection of the Divine Cause, they even surpassed all civilized countries.  Today, every nation and country that raises the banner of the oneness of the world of humanity, and comes under the protection of this Divine Power, in the end it shall become the leading power of the world.'
To another inquirer who wished to know the difference between the Bahá'í religion and other religions, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said: 'From a fundamental standpoint, the foundation of all religions is one, and all are built on Truth.  That is why there is no difference among the Founders of religions and Divine religions as regards the spiritual side of Their message and the spiritual laws which They teach.  But the accessories of religion; that is to say, the laws that deal with transactions and small matters-this branch of religion-the outer laws-being dependent upon the exigencies of time and place, must be changed or readjusted in every age.'
To another who inquired about the existence of evil and unhappy things, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'In the world of existence and creation, there is no evil.  Nay, rather, evil is the absence of good, even as darkness is the absence of light.  Change and transformation is an essential requirement of the world of creation, for if change and transformation does not exist, then there can be no composition and growth.  And because change, transformation and disintegration are necessary, the opposites have to exist, but in reality there are no opposites.  Just as in the sphere of the sun there is no darkness, nor does it have an East or West, yet night, day, light and darkness are of the requirements of this world.'
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá arose and went to the cemetery.  He prayed at the grave of David True, the only son of Mrs Corinne True, who just a few moments before passing away, opened his eyes, and seeing 'Abdu'l-Bahá at his bedside, he whispered, 'O 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  I love you!  I love you!'
From there 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to All Souls' Church, where He spoke;
Page 114
and later lunched at the home of Dr Milburn, the minister.
5 May 1912, was the day of farewell.  Early in the morning all the Bahá'í children of Chicago and their parents filled the large parlour of the Plaza Hotel.  None but those who have seen 'Abdu'l-Bahá and witnessed His great love for children and the great love of the children for Him, could ever describe the purity and fragrance of the atmosphere of His meeting with the children, for whenever and wherever there were children, 'Abdu'l-Bahá would go to them and they would come to Him.  Yea, even nursing babies knew Him by His peerless personality and also by His unique and resonant voice, calling them, 'O my baby!  My good baby!  My sweet baby!'  For one of His countless divine qualities was the quality of incomparable generosity and philanthropy.  He was always prepared to meet and please His visitors, be they high or low, children or poor.  And aside from being the treasure of knowledge and wisdom and the ocean of all things of the spirit, 'Abdu'l-Bahá always kept Himself well supplied with material things to bestow upon those who went to Him.  Flowers, candy, money, clothing, protection, comfort, etc., but these were for distribution among the friends and the needy and everybody else but Himself.
After welcoming the children and giving them flowers and candy, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to them as follows:  'According to what His Holiness Christ has said, you are the children of the Kingdom, and according to what His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has said, you are the candles of the world of humanity, for your hearts are in the utmost purity and your souls are in the utmost sanctity.  You are not entangled with this world; and like unto a mirror, your hearts are
Page 115
clean and polished.  Your fathers and mothers must educate you with greatest tenderness, and teach you the highest morals and ideals.  So that in the utmost perfection you may be imbued with the virtues of the world of humanity.  May you progress in all degrees, study sciences and arts, become the manifestations of eternal blessings and the means of great advancements.'
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the parents and all the Bahá'ís of Chicago.  'I am going away, but you must arise to serve the Word of God.  Your hearts must be pure and your intentions sincere in order that you may become recipients of the divine bestowals.  Consider that although the sun shines equally upon all things, yet in the clear mirror its reflection is most brilliant, but not so in the black stone.  This great effulgence and heat have been produced by the crystal clearness of the glass.  If there were no clearness and purity these effects would not be witnessed.  Should rain fall upon salty, stony earth, it will never have effect; but when it falls upon good pure soil, green and verdant growth follows and fruits are produced.
'This is the day when pure hearts have a portion of the everlasting bounties, and sanctified souls are being illumined by the eternal manifestations.  Praise be to God! you are believers in God, assured by the Word of God and turning to the Kingdom of God.  You have heard the Divine call.  Your hearts are moved by the breezes of the paradise of Abhá.  You have good intentions, your purpose is the good pleasure of God.  You desire to serve in the Kingdom of the Merciful One.  Therefore, arise in the utmost power.  Be in perfect unity.  Never become angry with one another.  Let your eyes be directed toward the kingdom of truth and not toward the world of the creatures.  Love the creatures for the sake of God and not for themselves.  You will never become angry when you love them for the sake of God.  Humanity is not perfect.  There are imperfections in every human being and you will always become unhappy if you look toward the people themselves.  But if you look toward God you will love them and be kind to them, for the world of God is the world of perfection and mercy.  Therefore do not look at the shortcomings of anybody; see with the sight of forgiveness.  The imperfect eye beholds imperfections.  The eyes that cover faults look toward the Creator of souls.  He created them, trains and provides for them, endows them with capacity and life, sight and hearing; therefore they are the signs of His grandeur.  You must love and be kind to everybody, care for the poor, protect the weak, heal the sick, teach and educate the ignorant.
'It is my hope that the unity and harmony of the friends in Chicago may be the cause of the unity of the friends throughout America and that all people may become recipients of their love and kindness.  May they be an example for mankind.  Then the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá and the bestowals of the Sun of Reality will be all encircling.'
Before leaving Chicago for Cleveland, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke in All Souls' Church, Lincoln Centre.  And that was another real Inter-racial Amity Meeting.
Among the noted persons who became Bahá'ís through 'Abdu'l-Bahá at that time were Mr and Mrs Albert R. Vail and Dr and Mrs William F. Slater.
(To be continued)


XIX:5, August 1928
page 140
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter IV
This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America is based on material and notes corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and which He had turned over to Dr Baghdádí at the time He was leaving this country.  The twofold purpose of this series, which will continue for several months, is, in the words of the author, 'First to bring back to the memory of the believers the time of the incomparable days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to them and to remind them of His words, His instructions and His admonitions; and, secondly, to give a picture of His visit so that later believers who did not have the blessing of seeing Him, may benefit by reading a brief history.'-Editor.
[Chapter I of this brief story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America, recorded the events which transpired on His arrival in New York.  Chapter II related to His first visit in Washington, D.C. and Chapter III to the first visit in Chicago.  Chapter IV, which follows, tells of the stirring events and spiritual victories of His visits in Cleveland, Ohio; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Montclair, N.J. and the return visits to Washington, D.C.; and New York.]
Cleveland, Ohio.-6 May 1912, at the Euclid Hotel, in this city, as well as in every place, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was welcomed by the Bahá'ís and their friends and the ever present newspaper reporters.  When a reporter asked for a message, 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'My message is the oneness of mankind and universal peace.  To conform religious questions with true science.  Equal rights for all, and the removal of religious, national and political prejudices.  To explain the reality of divine religions and to do away with imitations and sectarian superstitions.  The training of women to such a degree that they will have equal rights with men.  Readjustment of economic conditions and standards of living, so that, while a prince may be seated on the throne of honour, the poor also may possess a house and a mat.  The establishment of spiritual civilization, the improvement of morals, and the unity of the foundation of divine religions, for if the people of the world investigate the reality of religions they become united, because reality is one.  On account of imitations, they have remained disunited and in disagreement, for imitations differ.'
Later, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the home of Dr C. M. Swingle, where He spoke to the Bahá'ís and their friends.  In the evening He addressed the public at the Euclid Hotel.
Pittsburgh, Pa. -7 May 7,1912.  The dear friends in this city engaged an apartment on the seventh floor of the Schenley Hotel and were exceedingly happy about it, because it looked like that of the Plaza Hotel in Chicago.  Then during their private interviews, the friends, one by one asked the same question:  'Master! how do you like these rooms?'  His reply to all was also the same, 'Khaylí khúb!  Khaylí khúb!'-meaning Very good!  Very good!'  When all had left His presence happy and pleased, He turned His smiling face toward this servant and exclaimed, 'The friends here are anxious to know if I like these rooms!  They do not know what we had to go through in the past.  Imagine the conditions and surroundings when we were exiled by the Turkish Government and were imprisoned in the barracks of 'Akká; Bahá'u'lláh occupied one room; His family and several other families were forced to occupy one room.  Aside from the severe illness that was raging, and the death of many among us prisoners-adults and children-on account of unsanitary
Page 141
surroundings and starvation, I noticed that my own presence in that crowded room was another source of torture to all of them.  This was due to the fact that parents and children were suppressing and restraining themselves by trying to be quiet and polite in my presence.  So, in order to give them freedom, I accepted the morgue of the barracks, because that was the only room available, and I lived in it for about two years.  Now the kind friends here wish to know if I like these magnificent rooms!'
In the evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed a public meeting at the hotel.  He explained some of the Bahá'í principles, and declared that 'the Orient must acquire material civilization from the Occident and the Occident must acquire divine civilization from the Orient.'
Later, at a meeting composed of doctors and educators, 'Abdu'l-Bahá answered all questions, and in addition He explained how to heal the sick.  'If they (the doctors) learn about the foci-that is, the points of entrance of disease germs-and take the balance or equilibrium of the body elements as the base of treatment, and when an element is diminished or lacking, a diet that can supply the diminished element is given, then there will be no need for drugs and other difficult methods of treatment.'
Though this scientific statement of 'Abdu'l-Bahá sounds very brief, the intelligent and progressive physician knows that it contains the secret of medicine and the foundation upon which the right course of physical healing must be based in the future.
When the doctors present had no more questions for discussion, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said that He had one question to ask them.  'Why is it that the animals heal themselves, but man in sickness remains puzzled or helpless?'  For a moment the doctors looked at each other inquiringly, but not one opened his lips.  Finally, after consultation, perhaps, they said, 'We would rather hear the answer from the lips of His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá.'  This was His answer:  'Because man's thoughts are not limited to one direction; therefore, he is more heedless.  On the other hand, however, through concentration and deep thinking, his knowledge is more than all other creatures.'
On 8 May 1912, while preparing to leave Pittsburgh for Washington, D.C., we, the servants, begged 'Abdu'l-Bahá to have a special compartment, or at least a berth, on the train, that He might rest better.  But He absolutely refused.  'I do certain things and have certain expenses,' said He emphatically, 'only to help others and to serve the Cause of God; otherwise, from the beginning of my life, I never liked distinction.'
__________
Washington, D.C.-8 May 1912.  This was 'Abdu'l-Bahá's second visit to the city of Washington, and on His arrival He occupied an apartment at 1340 Harvard Street.  Later He visited the home of Mr and Mrs A. J. Parsons.
On the following day-9 May 1912-the fire of opposition was ablaze in the hearts of a few fanatical clergymen on account of the great public interest in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to their city.  They spoke bitterly against Him and the Bahá'í Cause; but all their efforts were in vain.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's comment on the matter was this:  'I deal with people very gently that they may not turn away and raise the least objection.  Yet these ministers of Washington have accused us of atheism.  The opposition of the leaders of religious sects is an evidence of the power
Page 142
and greatness of the Bahá'í Cause, for nobody would pay any attention to an unimportant cause.'
On the following day-10 May 1912-'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at a Woman's Meeting, and later visited a settlement house, a welfare organization for young children in which Mrs Alice Barney and others were interested.  From there He went to the home of Mrs Barney for dinner.  Mrs Barney's son in law and daughter, M. and Mme. Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney, of Paris, France, were also present.
__________
New York City.-11 May 1912.  This was 'Abdu'l-Bahá's second visit to the city of New York.  The Bahá'ís of that city and vicinity filled His apartment at 227 Riverside Drive.  'Marhabá!  Marhabá!'  This is the first greeting that almost all the friends and visitors heard from 'Abdu'l-Bahá's lips-meaning, 'Welcome!  Welcome!'  After welcoming those who came to see Him, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the group in these words:  'We went to Chicago and Washington.  It was very pleasant, for the American people are polite, eager to learn, and anxious to advance.  When man sees a tree growing and thriving, he must be hopeful, for undoubtedly it will blossom and bear fruit.  People have asked questions and when they heard the answers, they did not argue.  As we met the learned men and discussed great questions with them, they expressed their satisfaction.  All those who asked important questions, on hearing the answers, showed that they were pleased.  Some of the learned men in other countries are not like that, because they always like to argue.  We met good ministers at Chicago and were invited by several of them to speak in their churches.  We delivered comprehensive addresses and were invited by one of them, Rev. Dr Milburn to his home.  There was not a single soul who did not express satisfaction and approval.
'Yesterday, too, we spoke to a distinguished group in Washington, D.C.-some of the judges and one of the personal friends of former President Roosevelt.  When the subject of the cause or means for uniting the different religions, and for good will among the nations, was brought up, this friend (of Mr Roosevelt) said, 'Christ was the source of discord!'  Afterward, as I explained to him the unity and good will of nations under the power of His Holiness Christ, he smiled and accepted, and all others who were present were also pleased.  Finally, I asked, 'Have you any more questions or objections?'  He replied, 'No!  Not at all!'  I asked, 'Did you accept these explanations?'  He replied, 'All right.'
__________
Montclair, N.J.-12 May 1912.  'While still tired from travelling,' exclaimed 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'again we must leave today for Montclair to speak at Unity Church.'
First He went to the home of Mr and Mrs Easel and from there to the Unity Church.  Here He spoke upon the subject of 'Divine Unity'-the Oneness of God'.  When He brought the Church Book to be blessed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá's pen.  His wish was granted, and this was what 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote in Persian:  'O God!  Thou pure Lord!  Thanks be unto Thee, that the mountains and deserts were traversed and the great Atlantic was crossed until we reached this continent and in this country, we have mentioned Thy name and fame with our tongue.  Even in this church, like unto Elijah, we have proclaimed Thy Kingdom.  O God!  Make the people of this
Page 143
church to be attracted to Thy beauty, and in Thy shelter, protect and bless them.'-E. E. 'Abdu'l-Bahá Abbas
__________
New York City.-On the evening of 12 May 1912, at Grace Methodist Episcopal Church, West 104th Street, New York, 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered a remarkable address at the meeting of the International Peace Forum from which the following is quoted:4
'When we review history, we find that from the beginning of the world until the present time, strife and warfare have prevailed among mankind.  It was either a war among religions, or battles among races, or strife and warfare among kingdoms, or between two continents.  And all of these have arisen from human ignorance and have emanated from misunderstanding and lack of education.  And the greatest warfare and battles were among religions.
'It is an indisputable fact that the divine Prophets came to establish unity and harmony among mankind.  They were Divine Shepherds, not wolves.  The shepherd gathers and protects the sheep; He does not disperse them.  Every Divine Shepherd assembled a flock of sheep who were formerly scattered.  Among the Shepherds was His Holiness Moses, Who gathered the sheep of the scattered tribes of Israel, united them and took them to the Holy Land.  He gathered them after their dispersion, harmonized them with each other, and became the cause of their progress.  Therefore, their degradation was transformed into glory, their poverty into wealth, and their vices were changed into virtues to such a degree that the Solomonic Sovereignty was established and the fame of their glory reached the East and the West.  Thus it becomes evident that Moses was a real Shepherd because He gathered the scattered sheep of Israel and united them.
'When His Holiness Christ appeared, He too became the cause of unity.  He gathered the scattered sheep of Israel with the scattered sheep of the Greeks, Romans, Chaldeans, Assyrians, and Egyptians.  These people were in the utmost strife and warfare with each other.  They used to shed the blood of each other and like ferocious animals even devoured each other.  But His Holiness Christ gathered, united, and harmonized these people, and destroyed the foundation of strife and warfare.  It is evident, therefore, that the divine religions were the cause of fellowship and love.  The religion of God is not the cause of strife and warfare.  If religion becomes the cause of discord, its non-existence is better than its existence, for religion must be the cause of life; if it becomes the cause of death, it is better to be without religion.  For religious teachings are like medicine, if medicine becomes the cause of sickness, unquestionably the non-existence of the medicine is better than its existence.
'Likewise at a time when the Arabian tribes were in the utmost enmity and strife, shedding the blood of each other, confiscating property, making families and children captives, waging continuous warfare in the Arabian Peninsula, when no soul was at ease and no tribes had any rest-at such a time His Holiness Muhammad appeared.  He united the scattered tribes.  He caused them to agree and harmonize with each other.  Strife and warfare were banished.  The Arabs progressed to such a degree that the kingdom of Andalusia and the great dominion of the Caliphs was established.
'From this we can understand that the foundation of divine religion is one and that it is for peace,
Page 144
not for war; it is love, truth, unity, and fellowship.  But wars emanated from imitations which later had crept in.  The origin of religion is one and that is Reality. ...  In imitations, differences are found; because imitations differ, therefore they become the cause of discord.  If, however, all the religions of the world would forsake imitation and follow the original foundation of religion, all would agree.  They would have no more strife and warfare, for religion is reality and reality is one; it does not accept multiplicity. ...'
'In Persia, the utmost bitterness and hatred existed among the different sects and religions.  Likewise, in other Asiatic countries.  Religions were hostile toward each other.  The sects used to shed the blood of each other.  The races and tribes were at war, fighting and battling constantly.  They believed that the highest honour was in slaying their own kind.  It was considered a glory for one religion to attack and conquer another religion in battle.  It was at such a time that His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh appeared in Persia. ...  He laid the foundation of universal peace, raised the call of the oneness of the world of humanity, spread the principles of peace and reforms in the East.  He wrote to all the kings of the Orient about this important matter, encouraged all and announced to all that the glory of the world of humanity lies in the establishment of peace and righteousness.  This took place sixty years ago.  Because He promulgated the principles of peace, the Oriental kings arose against Him, for they imagined that these principles were contrary to their personal benefits and self-interest.  They inflicted upon Him all kinds of punishments.  They beat Him severely and imprisoned Him.  They banished Him to remote lands and finally held Him prisoner at a fortress 'Akká) and persecuted His friends.  On account of this matter-that is, the abandonment of superstitions, imaginations, and for the oneness of mankind-they shed the blood of twenty thousand men.  What homes they wrecked!  What souls they attacked and murdered!  But the friends of Bahá'u'lláh never wavered, and even until now, with heart and soul are making the greatest effort, endeavouring in the promotion of peace and agreement and in this great cause they are standing in action. ...  My hope is this, that the first ray of peace may start from America and reach other regions.  The American people are more capable than others to do this, for they are not like others. ...  Capacities exist in all countries and the cry for universal peace is rising, for the people are distressed.  Every year the governments are adding more to the expenditure of the armies.  Therefore, the people are tired.  Just now in Europe the earth is loaded with explosives and deadly instruments.  Ere long, these weapons of hell shall wreck the edifice of mankind! ...
'Now, just as America is famous throughout the world for her material prosperity and is well known and noted for her efforts in the promotion of industries, may she also endeavour to spread universal peace, so that she may be confirmed and this great matter may spread to other regions.  I pray on your behalf that you may be confirmed and assisted.'
(To be continued)


XIX:6, September 1928
page 170
Tea with a Queen and a Princess
Martha L. Root
Miss Martha Root, coming up from Greece to Yugoslavia, arrived in Belgrade, the capital, on January eighteenth.  She knew that Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania and Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana of Bucharest were in Belgrade.  She had written them she was going to Yugoslavia and the Princess had sent a note saying that they, too, would be in Belgrade early in January.  They were at the Royal Palace, guests of Their Majesties King Alexander I and Queen Marie Mignon.  The Yugoslavian Queen is the daughter of Queen Marie.-Editor.
Going out into the principal thoroughfare of Belgrade, Kralya Milan on Thursday morning, January nineteenth, one saw at a glance that it was a fete and the throngs were wild with joy.  'Why are all the people so happy?' the writer inquired, and a man who knew German replied in that language:  'A little Prince is born at the Palace!'  So the little Prince had come! the second son to the King and Queen of Yugoslavia!  This American visitor was so happy she said:  'I, too, am Serbian today, for I'm just as delighted as you are!  Only I wish my education were Serbian, then I could read all these newspapers which have the Queen Marie Mignon's pictures on the front pages!'
This was Thursday and Saturday came a little missive from the Royal Palace:  'Mama and I would be so glad to have you take tea with us at half past four,' and was signed, 'Ileana'.  Then this is what happened; the writer who arrived at the gates of the Royal Palace five minutes before the hour was met by stern guards standing straight and unbending in their red and blue Serbian uniforms, and why not!  They had two little Princes to take care of now!  Then secret service men appeared quite unheralded and they escorted the caller to an office of the Superintendent situated to the right and still outside the grounds.  There three stalwart officials in full uniform and several decorations carefully examined this little note signed 'Ileana' and written on the Royal stationery with the wide black border of mourning.  One of the men then quickly took the visitor through what seemed to be a private gateway into the Royal Gardens, and with his hand he motioned back, the writer does not know whom or what, for she was looking straight ahead to the palace.  Passing by several soldiers of the Guard, who bowed profoundly, she was taken through the Royal Palace entrance hall, then through a reception room up into another reception apartment where the rugs, the furnishings, everything was in splendid Serbian art designs, for this palace is new and its decorations are very interesting.  A pleasant attendant with kindly eyes and dressed in the picturesque Montenegrin costume with its wide, red, softly twisted girdle, helped her off with her wraps, and another attendant in conventional black took her up in an elevator.
Rare for her, she was in panic because all this formality had made her a little late and to be late to meet a Queen and a Princess!  Upstairs suddenly she halted at the door of the lift, before coming out.  Downstairs she had taken off the white kid glove from her left hand to arrange a nosegay, a moment more and she would have forgotten to put it on before entering the Royal drawing rooms!  Still, she remembered in time and slipped it on while the attendant in the stately black cloths had to smile and she did, too!  Hurrying from the elevator to the apartments of her Royal Hosts an inner poise came, a glad ecstatic happiness, for she was going to meet them again!
A cordial, low voice called as she
Page 171
came through a little reception room into the drawing room where Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania and Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana arose to greet her.
How dear they were!  The Queen was perfectly beautiful in her black gown with its myriad draperies and the soft cream whiteness of the bands about her head and the wide cream cuffs on the smart sleeves.  Long strands of pearls heightened the pleasing effect.  She was very happy, one could see in her smiling eyes how delighted she was that her daughter, Marie Mignon, and the new little babe so fresh from God had come safely, this little Princeling for whom everyone had been anxiously waiting for nine days!  Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana was smiling and looked very girlish in her frock of black wool.
It was a wonderful tea party in that great drawing room all in soft grey furnishings with a few American Beauty-red roses in vases here and there.  Later during the hour Her Majesty Queen Marie spoke of the passing of her dear friend Loie Fuller.  The guest asked if she might quote the words and send them to 'The Bahá'í Magazine, Star of the West'.  The Queen said:  'Yes, you may, but do not call it an interview with me, it is only a talk with you.'  One could see how this great Queen, granddaughter of the Czar Alexander II of Russia and grand daughter of Queen Victoria of Great Britain had truly loved and deeply appreciated the friendship of Miss Loie Fuller, sometimes spoken of only as 'the dancer'.  'It was the essence of soul in our friendship,' said Her Majesty, 'it had nothing to do with our situation in life, the fact that I was a Queen and she was a dancer.  She was a creator of marvellous colour effects.  She had one of the biggest minds of our century, and Loie Fuller was one of the most selfless women who ever existed.  We knew each other for twenty-five years, through our fundamental love for humanity.  She worked for me to help me be a strength to the
Page 172
world.  Why can't we see the essence in each human being and not just the outside circumstances?
'Well, since the death of Loie Fuller she is colossally recognized as the goddess of light and as the creator of marvellous dances which were a great contribution to art.  Not only that, but she is honoured for her great work toward peace.'
'Inwardly I am free, I am not like those who have not the courage to see!  Sometimes I write, and as I thought of the people who are not nice to me-(you see I have written it here) I would infinitely rather be nice to them while they are not nice to me, because if I'm not, I shall always be ashamed of myself for not being nice, yet I shall always be able to forgive them!'
The conversation later again turned to incidents in Loie Fuller's life.  The Queen related how Miss Fuller was always interested in getting museums started, thinking it helped bring better understanding among countries.  Then a little incident came up about gifts and treasures and Her Majesty said:  'That was just like Loie, she always gave away everything, she kept nothing for herself!  I once gave her a golden locket which had been a gift to me from one of the Emperors of Russia.  In it was a little ivory miniature of me which she loved best.  It was perfect and all hid in this little case of gold.  To make her accept it, I said:  'you wear it Loie, and then you can leave it to one of your museums!'  It was stolen from her the next day, and she told me it was just a sign that she should not possess anything just for herself alone!'
The writer asked Her Majesty if Miss Fuller had known about Bahá'u'lláh's principles for peace, the Bahá'í Movement?  She said she did not know, but that Loie Fuller was very internationally minded in religion.  'I didn't have any opportunities in the United States to talk with her about these spiritual matters.'
Then the Queen spoke about the real meaning of God and true religion and her Majesty made this wonderful statement:
'The ultimate dream which we shall realize is that the Bahá'í channel of thought has such strength, it will serve little by little to become a light to all those searching for the real expression of Truth.'
Then Her Majesty Queen Marie was called to the room of her daughter, Her Majesty Queen Marie Mignon.  She said good bye very tenderly and asked the writer to give her greetings to all the dear friends.
__________
Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana did not need to go upstairs to her sister.  She said:  'I am free until my little nephew comes, then I shall be busy.'  She told the writer about her Girl Guide work in Rumania.  Her own words were:  'In Rumania the Girl Guide work is the one thing best for all grades of society.  Perhaps you know, it was started by the Americans.  Our girls always speak of the American secretaries with great love.'
The Princess said there are two thousand Girl Guides in Bucharest alone, and there is a centre in Jassy.  She added:  'And very soon we hope to organize the work in Constanza, our port.  Yes, and we have large canteens for working girls and a big canteen for workmen where about one thousand men can eat a whole meal for less than a sixpence!'
Just then her darling little nephew, Crown Prince Peter, four years old, came in with his toy cups and saucers to have a tea party, too.  He is a charming little boy, very slender, very alert.  The Princess asked him to tell the writer whom he has upstairs to play with, thinking he would announce his new little brother whom he already loves devotedly.  Instead
Page 173
he quickly said:  'Oh upstairs I play with my grandmother, with my Mama and with you!' and he smiled his happiness.  Then he at once kneeled down on the rug by the table and became very busy arranging his cups and saucers and preparing his own party.
So the Girl Guide conversation was continued:  the writer liked what Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana said about the spiritual work with the girls.  She said:  'The spiritual work with the girls is going beautifully, it is the most advanced part I can speak of.  I also wish to have a physical department, but our work is not developed enough for that yet.  We have some colonies (summer camps) in the mountains now, and we hope to start one by the sea if we can get the money to do it.'  She explained how the girls can go for a month's holiday to these camps.  She spoke especially of the Young Women's Christian Association and of the Children's Red Cross, for she is an indefatigable worker in both.  She said 'I think all these are very excellent to get at everybody generally, it is good for racial amity.  But individually no activities compare with the more organized work of the Girl Guides.  In the Girl Guide organization, one works directly with the girl-her heart, soul and brain.
The Princess also spoke with deep insight and love of the Young Women's Christian Association.  She says it is under the patronage from the Rumanian Orthodox Church, and that both Orthodox and Protestants can be members.  She explained: 'The YWCA girls often come and sing in our Church (The Rumanian Orthodox Church).  I find that girls of all sorts come into the Young Women's Christian Association.  They come with great interest though often protesting, and sometimes just a little bit sneeringly, but they soon change their attitude, because of our simple cheerful way.  Sooner or later they become very good members.'
'I love my work very much indeed, and it has often helped me when I found things difficult both inwardly and outwardly.'
This inspiring and very young Princess is the great ideal of the girls of Rumania.  It is certainly fine that she studies, thinks and works so hard to help the girls of her country.  And though she only came to Belgrade, Yugoslavia, for a visit of three weeks, she brought with her a great number of good books-books on religion, universal peace and service-and she loaned them to her young friends of the Yugoslavian Court.  (She does not know it but the writer later saw the rare and splendid fruits and the happiness which the visit of Her Majesty Queen Marie and Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana brought to Yugoslavia).
Now suddenly the little Crown Prince has finished his play.  He has gathered and put into the box all the toy cups and saucers.  He stands up close beside the Princess and says:  'O Auntie, why does it take you so long to eat?' and Her Royal Highness replies to him:  'Because, Peterkins, we are almost as bad as you are sometimes, we talk instead of eat!'  So very soon we three walked through the great hall where the Crown Prince Peter's little automobiles were waiting for him, but he passed them by, he wished to go upstairs to his little brother.  Her Royal Highness held his left hand in hers, she took the writer's hand in her right and in a good bye that will never be forgotten, she pledged her service, saying:  'I am only too pleased to do as much of the work as I can!'  Thus came to a close this truly royal tea party!


XIX:6, September 1928
page 180
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter V
This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America is based on material and notes corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and which He had turned over to Dr Baghdádí at the time He was leaving this country.  The twofold purpose of this series, which will continue for several months, is, in the words of the author, 'First to bring back to the memory of the believers the time of the incomparable days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to them and to remind them of His words, His instructions and His admonitions; and, secondly, to give a picture of His visit so that later believers who did not have the blessing of seeing Him, may benefit by reading a brief history.'-Editor.
[Chapter I of this brief story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America, recorded the events which transpired on His arrival in New York.  Chapter II related to His first visit in Washington, D.C. and Chapter III to the first visit in Chicago.  Chapter IV told of the stirring events and spiritual victories of His visits in Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Pa., Montclair, N.J., and return visits to Washington, D.C. and New York.  Chapter V, which follows continues the story of His stay in New York, His attendance at the International Peace Society's Conference at Lake Mohonk, and of His visit in Boston and Worcester, Mass.]
13 May 1912, at Hotel Astor, New York.  Reception by New York Peace Society.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke upon the subject of 'Universal Peace' and after the reception, He said to His interpreters, 'No matter how much I say I am the Servant of God, 'Abdu'l-Bahá the servant of Bahá) still they call my name Prophet.  It will be nice if something is done so that they will stop using these names and titles.'
Speaking to a group of Hindus and Japanese who came to see Him in the evening, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'In the ancient times India was very prosperous.  From the continent of Asia civilization spread to Egypt and Syria, and from Syria to Greece, and from there to Arabia and Spain, and from Spain it spread to different European countries.  Nevertheless, the world of humanity has not yet reached the stage of maturity.  Whenever this material civilization becomes the twin of divine civilization, Universal Peace is established, and the souls attain to the station of the angels, then it will be the time of the maturity of the world.'
__________
On 14 May 1912, the International Peace Society held its Conference at Lake Mohonk, N.Y., and was invited to address the members.  Here He remained three days.  After delivering His address, He said to the interpreters, 'Once I wrote to the friends in Persia in regard to peace congresses and conferences, that if the members of the conferences for peace do not succeed in practicing what they say, they may be compared to those who hold a meeting to discuss and form firm
Page 181
resolutions about the sinfulness and harmfulness of liquors.  But after leaving the meeting, they occupy themselves in selling liquors, and just as before they become engaged in their business.  Now we must not only think and talk peace but we must develop the power to practice peace, so that like unto the spirit in the body of the world, peace may permeate the whole world.'
The members and speakers who attended this conference were from all parts of the world, most of them did well in presenting their papers.  But one of the speakers was very much excited, he kept pounding and hammering the table with his fists, kicking the chair with his feet, shouting and screaming at the top of his voice.  Later, 'Abdu'l-Bahá remarked, 'There are times when a speaker should raise his voice in order to emphasize his point.  There are times when he should speak low, and at times he should smile.  Gestures must harmonize with the character of words.'
On the following day, 15 May 1912 'Abdu'l-Bahá went out to take a walk and a crowd of young men and girls followed Him.  On reaching a large tree, the blossoms of which were in full bloom, he stopped and faced the crowd with His wonderful smile.  It was a real spring afternoon.  The sky was clear and the sun flooding the green hills with its warm rays.  Everything was quiet except for the melodies of song birds and the gentle breeze that whispered to the leaves.  Then suddenly the silence was broken by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Who undoubtedly knew the youthful crowd was anxious to hear Him tell an amusing story.  He did tell them a peculiarly significant story, which fixed clearly in their minds the importance of deeds.  And then He said, 'It is very easy to come here, camp near this beautiful lake, on these charming hills, far away from everybody and deliver speeches on Universal Peace.  These ideals should be spread and put in action over there, (Europe) not here in the world's most peaceful corner.'
On the following evening, 16 May 1912, about nine o'clock, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'We have to leave this place tomorrow and I wish I had one of my Persian rugs here, that I might give it as a present to our host, Mr Smiley, President of the International Peace Society.'  Those who were in His company told Him that it would be impossible for anyone to go to New York and return in one night, as all have to leave about ten o'clock in the morning.  Then He looked at this servant and asked, 'Well, what do you say?'  I said, 'I am not afraid to try anything for you, my Lord.'  He handed me His key and said, 'Take this and go to my room and bring a rug.  May God bless you.'
From Lake Mohonk I hired a carriage to take me to the railroad station.  To my disappointment, I learned on arriving there that there was no passenger train at that hour for New York, but a freight train was just leaving.  I jumped the tracks and made a wild dash as fast as I could run.  Finally I caught the rear end of that speeding train and succeeded in climbing up without mishap.  Then while I was trying to catch my breath, the conductor came and protested my action and ordered me to get off at the next station.  I showed him my professional card and told him that I was going on a very urgent mission.  'O you are a doctor!  That is all right.'  Fortunately, the kind conductor did not ask what the nature of the urgent call was.
About two o'clock in the morning I reached 'Abdu'l-Bahá's apartment and had to awaken Mrs Grace Ober and her sister, Miss Ella Roberts, to let me in.  They were very kind and asked me to have something to eat and to rest a while, but I thanked them and told them that I was in a great hurry.  Then I selected one of the
Page 182
most precious rugs from 'Abdu'l-Bahá's room and hastened to the railroad station.  I took the first early morning train.  It was about nine o'clock when I landed at Lake Mohonk station.  From the station it would take one hour to reach Lake Mohonk by carriage, and I had to be there at ten o'clock.  I looked around and there was no vehicle of any kind in sight.  But finally, the mail carrier appeared with his little wagon and got off at once to receive the mail.  I got on the little wagon and awaited his return.  When he came and saw me, well! was I nervous?  It was certainly one of the embarrassing moments of my life.  However, I explained my position to him, namely, that I was in the service of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whom we regarded as our spiritual king, and I showed him the rug that had to be delivered right away to Mr Smiley, President of the International Peace Society.  Then as a last resort, I suggested that in case it was against the law to let me go with him, he could at least let me relieve him that morning because I knew how to drive a horse, and if it was necessary, he might consult with the Post Office or the police.
O what a relief came when he said, 'It's alright I guess, I am going up there anyway.'
We arrived at our destiny just at the time when 'Abdu'l-Bahá was shaking hands with Mr Smiley and preparing to leave.  He took the rug with a smile and presented it to Mr Smiley to keep as a souvenir.
'Why this is just what I have been seeking for many years!' Mr Smiley exclaimed.  'You see we had a Persian rug just like this one, but it was burned in a fire and ever since my wife has been broken hearted over it.  This will surely make her very happy.'  Afterward the Secretary of the International Peace Society, who was the last one to leave, came and said to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'We all appreciate your blessed visit and we believe what you said is the truth.  But we are sorry we cannot include religion in our organization.  Our members are composed of all kinds of religions and sects the Protestant, Catholic, Jew, etc; naturally everyone prefers his own belief and will protest if any religion besides his own is favoured.'  To this 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'Your members may be compared to beams of different metals and you are trying to unite them as you would tie these fingers together with a string.'  Here 'Abdu'l-Bahá brought His own five fingers close together to illustrate His point.  'See, no matter how you tie them, still they shall remain separate.  But the only way to make these metals into one alloy, is to put them into a crucible and apply intense heat to melt them all.  For our melting pot, we use the fire of the love of God.'
On 17 May 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá returned to New York.  During the following days spent there He used to take a walk in the park along Riverside Drive.  Often He went alone, and knowing that the friends would like to accompany Him, He said, 'I sleep on the grass.  I come out of fatigue.  My mind rests.  But when I am not alone, surely I talk, and rest of body and mind cannot be gained.'
On the following day He spoke at the Church of Divine Fraternity and Dr John Herman Randall became interested and attracted to the Bahá'í Cause.
On 19 May 1912 the continuous stream of anxious visitors who called to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá at His apartment in the Hudson Building aroused the objection of the owner and therefore, 'Abdu'l-Bahá moved to the home of Mr and Mrs Edward B. Kinney.  Among his visitors that day was a group of Jewish Rabbis.  In the evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at Brotherhood Church, Bergen and Fairview Aves., Jersey City, N.J.  His subject was 'The Brotherhood of Mankind.'
Page 183
On 20 May 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at a Woman's Suffrage meeting in the Metropolitan Temple.  On His way, referring to the car of Mr Mountfort Mills, He said, 'Know the value of this automobile.  In the future they will say, 'this was the car of the servants of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh).'
21 May 1912 was children's day.  All the Bahá'í children of New York and some of their little friends had a lively visit with 'Abdu'l-Bahá before He left for Boston.
__________
22 May 1912.  'Abdu'l-Bahá stopped at the Charles Hotel.  In the evening He addressed the Unitarian Conference.
On 23 May 1912, He visited the Syrian and Greek Relief Society.  While all were eating lunch, He said to the president of the society:  'How fortunate you are to be engaged in service to the poor.  My greatest privilege is to be counted as one of the poor.'  Then He gave her ten gold pounds (about $50.00) as His contribution to the poor.  From there He left for Worcester, Mass. and on His way, glancing at the beautiful country with its green fields, He said, 'I wish that Bahá'u'lláh had come to these regions.  So fond was He of such scenery that often while travelling, wherever the country was more beautiful and more verdant, He would ask His company to make a stop.  Once while passing by the shore of a lake, the green country, the purity of the water and the beauty of the weather were so lovely in the eyes of Bahá'u'lláh that He asked that the caravan be stopped and all remained there for several hours.'
At Worcester, Mass. 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at the University and met a number of students who were from Japan, China and Turkey.  On leaving He said to the President, 'I am very pleased with you and your university.  Indeed you are serving the world of humanity and you are self sacrificing to mankind.  Above all I wish for you the best there is in the Kingdom.   My hope is that you may be the cause of spreading sciences and arts, and I pray on your behalf that God may make you an everlasting banner, and cause the divine love to reflect from your heart.  From you and the teachers and the students, I beheld much love and affection.  This meeting I shall never forget, and always I shall remember your services.'
This day, 23 May, was a day of rejoicing and happiness, for it was the anniversary Feast of the Declaration of the Báb (and also the blessed birthday of 'Abdu'l-Bahá).  That evening in Boston a wonderful feast was prepared by Mrs Alice Breed and she had baked a large cake and decorated it with sixty eight candles, and the first candle was blown out by Himself.
On the following day, 24 May 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the Free Religious Association or Unitarian Congress.
25 May, the Bahá'ís and their friends were invited to meet at the home of Mrs Edith Inglis, and in the evening He addressed the public at Huntington Chambers; and later a group of ministers called to see Him.
On 26 May, 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited the Syrians of Boston, and indeed it was a royal reception.  Commenting on this meeting, He said, 'What a good meeting that was.  How the confirmations of Bahá'u'lláh change the souls.'
Returning to New York, He stopped at the home of Mr and Mrs Edward B. Kinney During the day He spoke at Mount Morris Baptist Church, Fifth Ave, and 126th St.
On 28 May, from early morning until late at night friends and inquirers in groups called to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Page 184
On 29 May, He addressed the Theosophical Lodge at Broadway and 79th St.  One of the friends inquired about 'Abdu'l-Bahá's health.  He replied, 'My health and happiness depend upon the progress of the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.  This happiness is a lasting happiness and this life is an eternal life.'
On 30 May 1912, He spoke at the University of New York.
31 May 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the country home of Mr and Mrs Wm. H. Hoar at Fanwood, N.J. where a meeting was held.  Mr Hoar pleaded to have Him stay there for a while, but He excused Himself, saying, 'We have no time for pleasure and fresh air.  We must be occupied in service to the threshold of God.'  Later He spoke at the Town Hall in Fanwood and then returned to New York.
On 1 June 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following message to a Socialist who had called to see Him.  'Tell the Socialists, sharing in property and lands of this mortal world is conducive to strife and warfare.  But the sharing and heritage of the Kingdom is conducive to unity and goodwill.  Instead of striving for worldly sharing, if you strive for the things of the Kingdom, you will gain strength and eternal happiness.  For the divine Kingdom is spacious and will give you whatever you desire, and there will be no more strife and warfare.  Is this not better and nobler?'
On 2 June 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at the Church of the Ascension, Fifth Ave, and 10th St. New York.  After leaving the church He said, 'At first, on arriving at the church, I did not feel inclined to speak, but when I stood before that great audience, where the atmosphere of the church was filled with the Holy Spirit, I received a wonderful feeling of vigour and happiness.'
On 3 June 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was the guest of Senator Gifford Pinchot at Milford, Pa., where a large number of America's greatest statesmen and government officials were waiting to welcome Him.  Here, also, 'Abdu'l-Bahá predicted the coming of the World War.  When addressing His honoured audience.  He said, 'A world war among the powers is inevitable!  But it will not be in America.  This war will be in Europe.  You have taken a corner for yourselves.  You do not interfere with anybody, neither are you contemplating taking the European countries, nor is there anybody covetous enough to invade your lands.  You are at ease.  The Atlantic ocean is a natural mighty fortress.  Europe and other countries will be forced to follow your methods.  Great changes will take place in all Europe.  The centralization of great governments will end in the independence of internal states or provinces.'
On 4 June 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá returned to New York and stopped at the home of Mrs Champney, which like the home of Mr and Mrs Edward B. Kinney, became the centre of attraction.  One of the many friends present asked about the material civilization in America.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'This material civilization is like a glass or bulb, very transparent and pure.  But divine civilization is like a lighted lamp.  When these two are combined, the utmost perfection will be obtained.  The light of the Oneness of the world of humanity, equal rights and divine morals shall spread from this country to other countries and shall illumine the world.'
Another person asked, 'Is it possible for the busy man of the world to become spiritual?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'The more the souls advance in material things and the more they act with moderation, the more they can acquire capacity for spirituality.  The more sound the body becomes, the more will be
Page 185
the reflection and manifestation of the spirit.  Yes, the things which are contrary to spirituality are those that oppose true science and a sound mind.'
On 5 June 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá entertained the Bahá'í children at the Unity Club.  On the following day, 6 June, He visited the homes of Mrs Newton and Mrs Ives, where wonderful meetings were held.  Addressing the friends, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
'In the world of existence there is no issue greater than meetings that are held just for the love of God.  Consider, people from the East, people from the West how in the utmost fellowship we are gathered in one place.  It was impossible in the past to have such fellowship and unity.  It is the power of Bahá'u'lláh that has united the hearts and brought the souls under the power of One Word.  The members of a family even can never be gathered together with such a degree of love and be associated in such joy and happiness.  It is through the divine power and the influence of the Word of God that we are assembled with such cheer and gladness turning to the Abhá (Most Glorious) Kingdom and like unto young trees of the rose garden, swaying by the breezes of favour and bounty.  This day is the day that can never be forgotten, because we are under the shadow of Bahá'u'lláh; our hearts are rejoicing with His glad-tidings; our nostrils are perfumed by the fragrances of the Kingdom of Abhá; our hearts delighted with the divine call and our spirits revived by the merciful outpourings.  Surely such a day will never be forgotten.'
(To be continued)


XIX:7, October 1928
page 195
'Abdu'l-Bahá
God is like the calm and limitless sea.  His Bounty is overflowing and imitable.  The Love of God, the Beauty of God is everywhere and exists for man if he will but rise to spiritual heights, open his spiritual vision and behold it.  All souls have capacity for enkindling the Spirit, and as we may all be assisted by Its Divine Power, we must will to receive it.'


XIX:7, October 1928
page 218
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter VI5
This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America is based on material and notes corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and which He had turned over to Dr Baghdádí at the time He was leaving this country.  The twofold purpose of this series, which will continue for several months, is, in the words of the author, 'First to bring back to the memory of the believers the time of the incomparable days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to them and to remind them of His words, His instructions and His admonitions; and, secondly, to give a picture of His visit so that later believers who did not have the blessing of seeing Him, may benefit by reading a brief history.'-Editor.
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Philadelphia
8 June 1912.  A very unfortunate event happened6 through the malicious act of one who was supposed to be a friend, causing not only trouble to 'Abdu'l-Bahá but increasing greatly the strain of His daily work.  The writer has witnessed on many such distressing occasions how 'Abdu'l-Bahá would never say even a word to the offending person, for He was the essence of mercy, the source of compassion and the ocean of forgiveness.  He always covered the faults in His masterly way, and often would shower more kindness upon those who wronged Him.  However, before retiring that night, He said, 'The purpose of the appearance of the Greatest Manifestation of Bahá'u'lláh; the endurance of calamities and disasters; the martyrdom of the holy souls and the ordeals of the sanctified temples, were for the purification of souls and the spirituality of the friends.'
9 June 1912.  In the morning, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke at the Unitarian Church 15th St. and Girard Ave, and in the evening at the Baptist Temple.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá's return to New York
10 June 1912.  On this day a remarkable Tablet was revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá for M. Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney of Paris, France.  In it He referred to His visit in Philadelphia and of the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá which were all encompassing.
Speaking of the days in Baghdád, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'The Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) after leaving the 'Abode of Peace' (the city of
Page 219
Baghdád) and also Adrianople, did not speak at public meetings.  The style of His talks and His blessed utterances were wonderful, peerless and incomparable.  But for the sake of reverence, I do not choose to speak in that same style.'
11 June 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was not feeling well, and that was a sure sign there was inharmony somewhere among the friends.  For He always declared that His health was in the hands of the friends.  In their unity He received health, and in the lack of it He would be ill.  So on that morning He said, 'Bahá'u'lláh has closed the doors of dissensions.  He referred affairs to the Supreme House of Justice, and whatever its decision may be, all must obey.  He even said that should two divisions be formed amongst the Bahá'ís and each one establish its House of Justice and oppose each other, both of them would be false.  And before the establishment of the House of Justice, He appointed and confirmed the Centre of the Covenant and said whatever he does is right.  With the blessed pen, He wrote His Covenant.'
In the afternoon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the home of Mr Topakyan, the Persian Consul General.  Then He returned home where the friends were eagerly awaiting Him.  When some one inquired about the significance of dreams and the power of spirits, He replied, 'It is certain that there is a great connection between the human spirit and the realities of existing beings or things.  Thus sometimes whatever one sees in a dream, the same takes place on awakening.  Nay rather while one is awake and when the heart is free from troubles, certain things make an impression that later will materialize in a physical form.  Therefore there is a spiritual relation between the human memory or mind and physical forms.  And the spirit possesses the power of discover or unfoldment.  When this power is known, these questions become easily understood.  Nevertheless, here is an interesting thing, while the materialists are denying the spiritual power, they themselves are occupied in discovering the layers or strata of the earth (geology) and are submerged in the spiritual power and claim to know the happenings of the future.'
Another friend asked, 'In the Tablets it is stated that we must be severed and detached.  In another place it is stated that we must learn a trade or profession.  Do not these two statements contradict each other?'  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'In the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh, it is incumbent upon every soul to acquire a trade and an occupation.  For example, I know how to weave or make a mat, and you know some other trade.  This, in itself is an act of worship, provided that it is conducted on the basis of utmost honesty and faithfulness.  And this is the cause of prosperity.  Yet, in spite of being so occupied,-if the heart is not chained and tied to this world, and is not troubled by current events, neither hindered by wealth from rendering service to mankind, nor grieved because of poverty,-then this is human perfection.  Otherwise in a state of poverty, to manifest generosity and in a state of weakness to claim justice-this can easily be said, but it is not a proof of man's attainments and alertness.'
Some one asked, 'How can we recognize the person with selfish and insincere aims?'  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'I have spoken on this subject before.  Christ said, 'By their deeds (fruits) ye shall know them.'  Those who are related to me, shall be known by their deeds.'
12 June 1912.  On that day friends and visitors took 'Abdu'l-Bahá's headquarters by storm, all eager for private interviews.  For this reason, He said, 'Whosoever has not yet had a private interview, or if any one has
Page 220
very important business, let them come in, but the rest we shall meet at the general meeting.  For it is impossible to meet all, one at a time.'
Later at the general meeting, He spoke on the subject of true refinement and declared that, 'One of the special laws of Bahá'u'lláh is the one prohibiting cursing and defamation, and that all should seek forgiveness for their enemies.  Though the nations and people are physically related together in the world of spirit and heart they hold aloof from each other.  But those who have spiritual relationship, and unity of conscience, are always ready to sacrifice their lives for one another, even though they have no physical relationship.'
'In the traditions of the Shí'ihs (the second largest Muslim sect) concerning the coming of the Promised One, it is stated that 'Knowledge consists of twenty-seven letters.  All the Divine Manifestations who came, from the first to the last, have revealed only two letters.'  Aside from the true meaning (of this tradition) the victory and power of the Cause of God, the appearance of wonderful signs, the explanation of divine questions, the unfoldment of the secrets of the holy books, and the all encompassing knowledge of this Most Great Manifestation in the world of the Cause, are a hundred times more than that.  Also, outwardly speaking, the wise people of this age have acknowledged that the sciences, arts, industries and wonders of this century are equal to more than those of the past fifty centuries, nay rather, even greater than that.'
13 June 1912.  Speaking of the bitter days of persecution, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'Notwithstanding all these persecutions and ordeals, the Cause of God was victorious and irresistible, even though the Committee of Investigation and its members every hour inflicted grave injustice and brought forth false accusations at the city of 'Akká.  After joining and conspiring with the deniers and enemies at 'Akká to crush and destroy us, and while they were still on their way to Constantinople, the wrath of God overtook them.  The whole matter was changed.  All the oppressors became degraded.  Some of the members of the committee were put to death and some had to run away.  Finally one of them went to Egypt and begged food of the believers to save himself from starvation.'
The reader may know perhaps that in 1907 the enemies of 'Abdu'l-Bahá aroused the fear of 'Abdu'l-Hamíd, the Sultán of Turkey, and turned him against 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  So he sent a committee to investigate some serious charges, namely, that was going to make Himself a king, and other false accusations.  While at 'Akká, the committee met 'Abdu'l-Bahá; and then returned to Constantinople with the intention of asking the death sentence from the Sultán for 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  But before the committee reached Constantinople, one day the Sultán was talking with the chief of the Muslims at the door of the Mosque, when a bomb that was evidently intended for him, exploded and he had a very narrow escape from death.  He fainted.  About three hundred lives were lost by the explosion.  Then soon afterward, the Young Turks came into power; Sultán 'Abdu'l-Hamíd was deposed and cast into prison, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá was not only freed from danger by the Young Turk Party, but also from the Turkish prison.
Speaking upon the subject of discord among the friends, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'Bahá'u'lláh declared that whenever the people of Bahá have discord, even though on behalf of Bahá'u'lláh Himself, both sides are to be rejected.'
After taking a short nap, He returned and said, 'I was tired.  I slept a little.  I dreamed that I was talking
Page 221
to you, and it was so clear I was awakened by my voice.  One of the words of that dream was the word, 'distinction' [imtíyáz].  Therefore, it is befitting that we speak on the subject of distinction.'  (And this talk is published in full in The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 189ff.)
14 June 1912, the sad news of the death of Áqá Siyyid Taqí Manshádí, one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's old secretaries, was received.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'The Station of Áqá Siyyid Taqí Manshádí will become known in the future.'
Speaking of Bahá'u'lláh, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'Notwithstanding that the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) was in prison, His blessed tent was pitched on Mount Carmel with the utmost dignity.  From a purely outward point, His power and might was in such a great degree that the governor of 'Akká tried for five years to see Him and visit the holy threshold, but he refused and never paid any attention to him.'
Speaking of His own public addresses, in churches, etc; 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'They are according to the capacities of the souls and the exigency of the time.'  Then He declaimed a verse from Persian poetry, to illustrate this point 'Though the father may sing to the baby 'Tee-tee' in his own mind, he may be drawing an architectural plan.'  We gather from this bit of illustrated verse how infinitely beyond the powers of audiences to grasp are the images and cosmic visions of the Prophet.


XIX:8, November 1928
page 239
'Abdu'l-Bahá
'Consider how great and unexampled have been the diversity of race, the antagonisms of faiths and the conflict of opinions in Persia.  In this day, however, the fragrance of holiness has produced so complete a fusion of the divers elements in that land that its varied peoples, its opposing sects and hostile races have become even as one soul.  Reflect how great is their (Bahá'ís) love one for the other, how firm their union, how unified their interests, how close their association and intercourse.  Christian, Jew, Zoroastrian and Muslim, having all banished every trace of estrangement and difference from their midst, have all gathered together in perfect harmony and understanding, with all affection, happiness and freedom.
'Ponder in thine heart what the Power of the Most Great Name (Bahá'u'lláh) hath wrought!'


XIX:8, November 1928
page 253
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter VII
This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America is based on material and notes corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and which He had turned over to Dr Baghdádí at the time He was leaving this country.  The twofold purpose of this series, which will continue for several months, is, in the words of the author, 'First to bring back to the memory of the believers the time of the incomparable days of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to them and to remind them of His words, His instructions and His admonitions; and, secondly, to give a picture of His visit so that later believers who did not have the blessing of seeing Him, may benefit by reading a brief history.'-Editor.
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Brooklyn, N.Y.
15 June 1912.  'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the Fourth Unitarian Church, at Beverly Road, Flatbush, Brooklyn, N.Y.  At noon, He lunched at the home of Mr and Mrs Howard MacNutt.  In the evening, He addressed the Central Congregational Church at Hancock Street.  In His inspiring addresses He proved the validity of Christ and Muhammad.  The attention of the reader is called to this great fact, namely, that in all the history of America, no one has ever tried to prove the validity of Christ in Jewish Synagogues, and the validity of Muhammad in Christian churches.  But this 'Abdu'l-Bahá did with pure logic and irrefutable evidence.
Later at a general meeting He said among other things, 'No matter how much the world of materialism progresses, still it is in need of the teachings of the Holy Spirit.'  He urged the believers to teach and told them just how to teach the Bahá'í Message saying, 'You must teach the Cause of God in the utmost humility.  Just as I am humble in the presence of all, even the children, so you must be likewise.'
17 June 1912.  Consenting to the repeated requests of the friends, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the home of Mr and Mrs Howard MacNutt to have a moving picture taken.  The series of those pictures were as follows:  1.  His arrival and alighting from an automobile and how He was welcomed by the friends.  2.  His walks and talks to His secretaries and interpreters, 'Consider the power of the Ancient Beauty, and the influence of the Greatest Name-(Bahá'u'lláh)-How He has established such a unity and fellowship between us and the American people!  If the powers of the world were brought together, it would not be possible to have the hearts so attracted to each other, and we here are assembled with such love at such a reception and love one another with heart and soul!  Behold what the power of Bahá'u'lláh has done and how He made the people of the East and the West, the lovers of each other!  Were it not for His power, it would have been impossible to arrange this meeting.  Praise be to God!  We are all united and agreed in heart and soul.'  3.  His walks alone, chanting in Persian, 'His wonders are resplendent His power is perfect.  His favours are bestowed.  His mercy is abundant.'  4.  His sitting with white and coloured children, giving His blessings to them while the Persian friends are standing in His service.  5.  His bidding farewell to the friends and uttering the following words:  'Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The sun of Truth has arisen!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The New Jerusalem has descended from heaven!  Glad-tidings, Glad-tidings!  The divine glad-tidings are revealed!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The secrets of the Holy Books are unfolded!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The Great Day has become evident!  Glad-tid-
Page 254
ings, glad-tidings!  The banner of the oneness of the world of humanity has been raised!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The tent of Universal Peace is set up!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The divine lamp is lighted!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The merciful breeze is wafting!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The promises and prophecies of the Prophets are fulfilled and evident!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The Glory of Carmel has become reflected on the horizons!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  The East and West are embracing each other!  Glad-tidings, glad-tidings!  Asia and America, like unto two lovers, are holding the hands of each other!'
18 June 1912.  The Brilliant Proof, the manuscript of a book written by Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl, the most noted Bahá'í writer and historian, was received and highly approved by 'Abdu'l-Bahá Who asked me to give it to Mr Albert R. Windust of Chicago as a present and with the request that it be published.  When someone suggested to Him a visit to the beautiful country for recreation, He refused, saying, 'We love the meetings of the faithful ones, not beautiful sight-seeing trips.  But first we must be faithful to God, then to His servants.  Even if we have in the past seen beautiful places and delightful sceneries, it was either for business and meeting people, or while travelling.'
Then He wrote a wonderful tribute in honour of Áqá Rídáy-i-Qannád, a true and a pioneer servant of the Bahá'í cause, who died at 'Akká.  'Faithfulness,' as defined in this tribute, 'means that I should be a wanderer in this mountain and desert!  True faithfulness is when I become lost, stripped from names and unconsidered; in the field of sacrifice to be a target for the arrow of unfaithfulness!  In short, I have but one request to make of the friends of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, and that is to bow their heads at the Holy Threshold (the Holy Shrines) and ask for 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the cup of martyrdom, so that in servitude to the Threshold of Bahá, He may sweeten His mouth with a drop from the ocean of faithfulness!'
On the following day, at the request of Miss Juliet Thompson, a noted Bahá'í artist, 'Abdu'l-Bahá consented to have His portrait painted by her.  Later Mrs Smith of Philadelphia called and asked for a name, and for advice concerning her health.  'Abdu'l-Bahá gave her a Persian name, 'Tábandih', meaning 'brilliant'.7  And his advice concerning health was, 'You must always be happy and associate with happy and cheerful people and characterize yourself with the characteristics of the Merciful One.  For happiness has a connection with health preservation; and from sorrow, diseases are born.  The source of permanent happiness is spirituality and merciful conduct which is not followed by sorrow.  But physical happiness is subjected to a thousand kinds of changes and transformations.  Have you heard the story about the Emperor who while looking into a mirror used to be sad and distressed and would wail, 'Oh!  What a splendid and youthful body I once had; now how helpless it is!  What a beautiful face I had, how homely it has become!  What a graceful form I had, how out of shape it has become!'  One by one, he used to recount all the good features of his physical equipment when he was young and then, making comparisons, he would show forth his sadness.  This is the end of physical happiness!'
A question concerning calamities and cataclysms was asked.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  'The links of the chain of existing things are connected by a universal law and divine or-
Page 255
der, and all created things are linked together.  It is impossible for any of the links to break except by its relation to that universal law and order.  Whatever happens is from the essential requirements and is based on great wisdom.  For it is a divine decree that grass should grow and then wither; every green and verdant plantation eventually to dry up; every united body to become dispersed; and every composition to be followed by decomposition.  All these are from the requirements of that universal law and the collective links that are interpreted as divine decree or fate.'
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Monclair, N.J.
20 June 1912.  Here 'Abdu'l-Bahá rented a house for a few days and on the first evening there, He went out for a walk, accompanied by Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán and this servant.  Oh!  What lessons of wisdom, justice and severance did He teach us that night!  Indeed we learned from Him in one hour more than we could have learned in many years from any school or teacher.  The following is one of the incidents of His life when He was a very young boy in Baghdád which He related to us that night, and which, indeed, is a clear evidence of His innate and keen wisdom, His justice and fairness, His severance and detachment from material things.  'Mírzá Hádí-i-Javáherí, a very wealthy Persian Bahá'í died in Baghdád leaving a son, three daughters and a great fortune.  The son, Mírzá Músá was also a Bahá'í, but the daughters were fanatical Muslims.  A fierce fight started among these heirs because they mistrusted each other and could not come to a decision as to how to divide equally among themselves their father's immense fortune.  Finally Mírzá Músá went to Bahá'u'lláh for help and assistance.  Bahá'u'lláh said, 'This is not my work, go to my Greatest Branch ('Abdu'l-Bahá)-will help you.'  Though I was but twelve years old, I at once summoned a reliable real estate man and asked him to divide their estate into four equal parts.  I also summoned a furniture dealer and asked him to divide the furniture into four equal parts.  Then I summoned an expert jeweller who divided their jewellery into four equal parts.  This plan pleased all the heirs.  It took only from morning until noon for the three experts to finish their work of dividing everything into four equal parts, and then everybody was happy.
After a day or so, Mírzá Músá came to me and told me confidentially that he had in his possession all his father's money in gold and nobody else knew anything about it.  He wanted me to have all that money for my services.  I asked him to show me where the money was.  He took me to his room and produced a satchel full of gold.  I locked the satchel, sealed it with wax and ordered him to call his sisters in.  When they came, I explained to them that it was unnecessary to call an expert to divide the money, that it could easily be divided by themselves.  Seeing the satchel sealed with wax, all of them were satisfied and each one received one fourth of the money.  Though at that time I did not have any money, and I had to get along in the cold without an overcoat because I could not afford to buy one, and my old turban needed to be changed, I did not wish to take any of their money.'
Streams of big tears gushed forth from my eyes and in my heart I said 'No wonder you are called Master.'  Yea the citizens of Baghdád and the inhabitants of 'Iráq always called Him 'Master', because He was the first one to settle their problems and adjust their affairs.
22 June 1912.  Concerning inter-
Page 256
ference in politics and meddling in government affairs, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'The people of Bahá are forbidden from interfering or meddling in political affairs and in every country, they must obey the government and the law and order of the land.'
23 June 1912.  Concerning material progress in Europe, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'The material progress of Europe shall reach a stagnant mark, that is, it will one day reach to the limit, and everything that reaches a natural limit and then stagnates, surely must then decline.  We are hopeful that spiritual progress may reach and protect them from this fate.  On the other hand all those movements which are in a stage of birth and growth, face a sure progress.  In those days when we were leaving Tihrán for Baghdád, there was nothing in appearances to show the strength that was in the Cause, but because the Cause of God was then like a young tree, full of the power of growth and development, it was in reality even then destined to encircle the East and the West; whereas the great and apparent absolute power of Násiri'd Dín Sháh was destined to reach its decline and fade and vanish.'
That afternoon, seeing every seat in the house occupied and scarcely any standing room, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'We do not look at the place of meeting, nay, rather we look at the radiant faces and hearts of the friends.'
When someone inquired about His health, 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'Physical health is of no importance.  The importance is in the spiritual health which has a lasting effect and ecstasy.  The more you think of the body, the worse it becomes.  Therefore, it is better not to pay so much attention to it.  Today I drank a glass of milk.  I feel much more comfortable.  Why should man go to so much trouble and hardship for eating?'
25 June 1912.  After lunching at the home of Mr and Mrs Edsel, 'Abdu'l-Bahá started for New York.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's return to New York
Mrs Florence Krug stated that her husband, Dr Krug, was having a change of heart, and that he not only had ceased his opposition, but he was helping and encouraging her to serve the Bahá'í Cause.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'When the Muslims were beating Chief Mu'abadán (a Persian fire worshipper) with the whip for drinking wine, (this was the old Muslim way of punishing the violators of their prohibition law) he cried, 'O Arabian Muhammad!  What hast thou done!  What an influence Thou hast manifested!'  Now it must be said, 'O Bahá'u'lláh!  What hast Thou done!  What power is this that has transformed such people into captives of love and united the east and the west!''
In the afternoon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá paid a short visit to Mrs Gary at her home; and from there, passing through the military park, He went to the home of Mr and Mrs Hooper Harris, where a meeting and dinner were arranged for Him.
27 June 1912.  While sitting with a group of friends in the park, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'What revolutions have taken place (in the East) and what waves have risen from them until they brought us here, and yet, what other waves are to rise! ...
'My beginning and end is the Holy Threshold (the shrine of Bahá'u'lláh).  Whatever we have is from that Threshold and to it we shall return.  Were it not for His help and bounty, these souls (the believers) would not be sitting here at your left and right.  Where is Persia and where is America!'
(To be continued)


XIX:9, December 1928
page 261
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Consider!  Has any one singly and alone accomplished without the aid of his contemporaries any great thing in life?  United members of an organism or assembly will be in power and able to accomplish great deeds.  Human beings singly and alone cannot fully achieve a great good thing; in fact man cannot live solitary.
Therefore, life must be lived in unison in society; and when socially united, fully united, they can do everything.
When one family is well united, great results are obtained.  If this circle of unity be widened so as to include and control the interests of an entire village to the extent that all the members of its population are fully united and in perfect accord; the results will be accordingly.  Now widen the circle again!  Let a city be united and the results will be still greater.  Widen the circle yet more and have the people of a country united; then, indeed, important results shall be forthcoming.  And if a continent is fully united and will unite all the other continents, then is the time when the greatest result shall obtain.


XIX:9, December 1928
page 288
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Every movement in the world of humanity bringing on its back unity and accord is good; and every matter which creates discord and inharmony is evil.  This century is a radiant century.  Its discoveries are many.  Its inventions are great.  Its undertakings are multitudinous.  On account of these great accomplishments, this century is superior to all other centuries.  But the greatest undertaking is the unification of language, because it is more beneficial and productive of more pleasure than any other undertaking of this age.  The unity of language brings about great fellowship between hearts.  The union of language is the cause of the attainment of accord.  It brings about the entire sweeping away of misunderstanding between the people; it establishes accord between all the children of men.  It gives broader conceptions and greater vision to human minds, and today the greatest undertaking in the world of humanity is to understand and make yourself understood.  Every individual member of the body politic, on account of the widespread of an auxiliary international language, will be enabled to put himself in touch with the current events and ethical and scientific discoveries of the age.  An auxiliary universal language will give us the key-or the master key-to the understanding of the secrets of the past ages.  Through an international language every nation in the future will be enabled to pursue its scientific discoveries very easily and without any difficulty.


XIX:10, January 1929
page 306
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter VIII
From the account of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's daily activities and words while in America, furnished us by Dr Díyá Baghdádí, we have here taken some of the most significant passages, for the most part never before published.  Noteworthy in this number is a teaching on the Immortality of the Soul.-Editor.
Immortality-A large and very important meeting was held at the home of Mrs Agnes S. Parsons, in Dublin, N.H., on 7 August 1912, to which all Bahá'ís and members of the summer colony, many statesmen and their families were invited.  He who is eager to learn the truth about the immortality of the soul and is interested in the future life, let him study carefully and meditate thoughtfully on the following address that was given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at that meeting:
'1.  First, we must prove that there is no death for the world of
Page 307
existence, or existing bodies, because death means separation of the elements of a compound-the body.  For example, all these contingent beings or created things which we can see are composed of elements; that is, simple, single elements were composed or combined together, formed infinite forms and, from every composition, a certain creature or object was created.  Thus from the composition of certain elements, this flower was created.  As to the term, death, it means the decomposition or separation of the simple, single elements and atoms, not their destruction, for these elements are everlasting, indestructible and can never be lost.  Then we say this flower is dead or destroyed, we mean that its composition has been followed by decomposition-only the order of its composition has been upset-but its original elements are eternal.  In the same way, man was created from simple, single elements.  Therefore, his death means separation of these elements, but they are everlasting and can never be lost.  Thus the term life means composition, and, death means decomposition, or separation and transformation of the elements from one form into another.  Just as the transformation of the vegetable kingdom into the animal kingdom means death of the vegetable, in like manner, the transformation of man from the physical world and the separation of the elements (of his body) means the death of man.  Then know, that there is no death in the world of existence, at most, there is transformation from one condition to another.  But the human spirit is not a composition or combination of elements that must be followed by decomposition.  If it were a composition, then we might say it would die, but because it is not a composition, therefore, it does not decompose or die.  This is also evident even in the simple elements and their parts (atoms, ions and electrons) where there is neither composition, nor decomposition.  And there is no question about that.
'2.  While the body changes from one condition to another, there is no change or transformation for the soul.  For example, the youthful form of the human body will become old, but the soul, remains the same; the body becomes weak, but the soul does not become weak; the body becomes defective or paralyzed, but for the soul, there is no change.  How often a member may be amputated from a body, but the soul remains the same, and never changes.  Therefore, while the body undergoes changes, the soul does not change.  And because the soul does not change, it is immortal.  For the pivot or the main thing in mortality is change and transformation.
'3.  In the world of dreams, the human body lays helpless; its powers lacking; the eyes do not see; the ears do not hear, and the body does not move.  But the soul sees, hears, travels and solves problems.  Therefore, it becomes evident, that by the death of the body, the soul does not die; in the passing away of the body, the soul does not perish; when the body sleeps, the soul does not sleep, nay, rather, it comprehends and discovers things; it flys and travels.
'4.  The body may be here, but the soul can be present in the east or west.  While in the west, it manages the affairs of the east, and, in the east, it discovers the things of the west.  It organizes and runs the vital affairs of nations.  While the body is in one place, the soul travels in different countries and continents.  In Spain, yet, it discovers America.  Thus, the power and influence, which belong to the soul, are lacking in the body.  The body does not see, but the soul sees and explores.  Therefore, its
Page 308
life does not depend upon the body.
'5.  There can be no effect without a cause.  It is impossible for the cause (for example, the sun) to perish, and its rays and light continue to exist; the fire to be extinguished, and its heat still be felt; the light to be blown out, and the lamp continue to shine; the mind to be gone, and the intellectual faculties remain.  In brief:  there is no effect without a cause, and as long as the effect exists, or inasmuch as the effect exists, the cause must also exist.  Thus, though His Holiness Christ appeared nineteen hundred and twelve years ago, His work has lasted until this very day; His kingdom is evident; His influence is wonderful.  Is it possible for that Spirit of God (Christ) to be of the mortal and such great work of His should stay immortal?  Then it is evident that He, that Source of eternal light and everlasting outpourings (Christ) is the cause of the existing signs of His work.
'6.  Every created thing has a definite form or shape at a time.  It may be a triangle, or square or pentagon (a figure of 5 sides and 5 angles).  It is impossible for an object to take on different forms at one time.  For example, this rug is an oblong square.  Is it possible for it to become circular?  It is impossible unless its shape is changed into a round form.  Thus while it is impossible for any of the created bodies to appear in different forms at a time, the human soul possesses all forms and shapes at a time.  The soul then does not need to be changed and transformed from form to form and cast out one shape to take on another shape and figure.  And because the soul is independent of change and form, therefore, it is not matter and is immortal.
'7.  When man looks at creation, he finds two things-the tangible and the intangible.  The tangible things are such as the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms.  Whatever can be perceived by the senses, namely, that which is visible to the eye, heard by the ear, detected by the nose, felt by the touch or hand, and tasted by the mouth, all these are subject to change.  But the intangible cannot be perceived by the physical senses.  Like the mind and knowledge or science, these, are intangible realities (realities that must be reasoned out) and are not subject to change and transformation.  The eyes do not see them, and the ears hear them not.  It is impossible for knowledge, which is an intangible reality to be transformed into ignorance.  In like manner, the soul belongs to the intangible realities, therefore, it neither changes nor perishes.  However, he who has insight, spiritual, and merciful, will find that the human soul was never and will never be of the perishable.  He perceives that all things have been always with him and are under his shadows.  He finds himself eternal, everlasting, ever living, immortal and submerged in the lights of the Exalted Lord.  For he has spiritual perception and susceptible conscience and is not limited by the rules of mind and human senses.  But he who is lacking in insight and a pure conscience, always finds himself desperate, and of the dead.  Whenever he thinks of death, he becomes alarmed and believes himself to be of the perishable.  But the blessed souls are not like that.  They know that they are immortal, full of light, and will never die like unto the disciples of His Holiness Christ.  That is why at the time of martyrdom and death, the Bahá'ís are in the utmost happiness, because they know that there is no death or annihilation; at most, it is this:  that the body vanishes but the soul is eternal and immortal in the divine realm.'
Page 309
A lady asked, 'Why is it that all the Divine Manifestations have always appeared in the form of man and not woman?'  'Abdu'l-Bahá explained that the greatest work of women is to be the mother of the Divine Manifestation.  Then He laughed heartily, and said, 'Though women are equal to men as far as capacity and faculties are concerned, yet, no doubt men are stronger.  Even among the animals, such as pigeons, sparrows, peacocks, etc., a distinction (between male and female) is evident.'
__________
On His return to His apartment in New York on 16 July, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was met by a number of friends and inquirers.  A lady physician asked an interesting question, 'Why should we have so many disasters and catastrophes in the world?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'There are two kinds of disasters.  (1)  Those that are caused by immoral deeds and vice, such as, untruthfulness, hypocrisy, dishonesty, injustice, etc.  Undoubtedly, bad deeds have evil results.  (2)  Those that happen because of the essential requirements of the world of creation; the universal divine law, and the universal relations that are inevitable such as the law of change and transformation, death and life.  Thus, it is impossible for a tree not to dry up, and life not to end in death.'
__________
The Syrians of Boston invited 'Abdu'l-Bahá to their club on 24 July 1912, and anxious to know if the Arabic language would in time be the international language.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  'No!'  'Then, how about the Esperanto language?' some one asked.  'A few weeks ago,' 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'I sent a letter from New York to one of the Esperanto leaders.  I wrote that if they hold a conference for representatives from different races and rulers of different countries to consult about this language and promote it then it will become universal.'
__________
Question:  'Does not the Essence of Divinity-God Himself-appear in the flesh?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'The Essence of Divinity-God-is sanctified above ascent, descent, and appearance.  The lights of His qualities are manifest or reflected in the mirrors of the hearts of His Holy Manifestations.'
Question:  'What is the meaning of 'Everything is in everything'?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'It means the transference or transformation of created bodies into infinite forms of creation.  Every indivisible electron is transformed into all the forms of creatures and everything travels or moves in everything.'
__________
On 30 July 1912, Mírzá 'Alí Akbar Nakhjavání, who came to this country in those days and served faithfully as one of the Persian party in the service of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, said, 'How powerful and effective your words are!'  'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'This is not my power, nay, rather, it is the power of My Father.  This work, is His work.'  Then turning to the friends assembled, He continued:  'Confirmation is something different than capacity, knowledge and mind.  How many unimportant souls have discovered important matters.  How many souls have endured hardships for years to explore the North Pole, yet, Admiral Peary reached it.  But the real point must be explored.  Because he was confirmed, Columbus, with just a trifle of trouble, discovered America.  The disciples of His Holiness Christ, though outwardly considered degraded, have accom-
Page 310
plished that which Napoleon could not accomplish.  They transformed the very nature of the world.  From this it becomes evident that affairs are carried out through confirmation.'
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá on 31 July 1912, visited the Henderson Summer School about twenty-five miles from Dublin, N.H.  'Twenty years ago,' said Dr Henderson, 'not a single summer school could be found anywhere, but now, there are hundreds of them in this country.'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Every praiseworthy thing spreads rapidly.  But the children must first be taught about religion, that they may become faithful and honest.'


XIX:11, February 1929
page 346
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter IX
From the account of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's daily activities and words while in America, furnished us by Dr Díyá Baghdádí, we have here taken some of the most significant passages, for the most part never before published.  Noteworthy in this number is a teaching on the solution of the economic problem.-Editor.
He who is interested in the economic problem and its future solution, let him study the following from a Tablet (or letter) written by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs A. S. Parsons, of Washington, D.C.
'The solution of the economic problem should begin with the farmer and then all other classes.  For the number of farmers compared with other classes is more than double.  Therefore, it is only proper to begin with the farmer who is the first real worker in society.
'A group of efficient people or a committee should be elected and the whole village be under its management.  Also, a general Storehouse should be established, and a secretary appointed.  At the time of harvest, a certain percentage of all crops must be given to the general storehouse, under the supervision of the committee.  This storehouse should have seven revenues or incomes:  (1)  Income taxes.  (2)  Taxes on animals.  (3)  Property or anything left without an heir.  (4)  Lost and found, that is, things found and unclaimed.  (5)  One third of all treasures or things dug out and excavated from the earth, must go to this Storehouse.  (6)  One third of all the mines must go to the Storehouse.  (7)  Voluntary contributions.
'In short, the Storehouse should also have seven expenses, as follows:  (1)  An appropriation to pay the expenses of the Storehouse itself, and for public health.  (2)  To pay one tenth of the storehouse income as government taxes.  (3)  For government taxes on animals.  (4)  A home for the orphans.  (5)  A home for the aged.  (6)  Schools.
Page 347
(7)  For the support of the poor.
'As to the first, the income tax must be collected in the following manner, for example:  When all the income of a person amounts to $500.00 and his necessary expenses amount to $500.00, he should be exempt from paying taxes.  Another person whose expenses amount to $500.00, but his income is $1,000.00, should pay one tenth of his income for taxes, because he has more than he needs for his living and can afford to pay one tenth of his income without trouble.  Another person whose expenses are $1,000.00 and his income, $5,000.00, should give one and a half tenths of his income, because he has more than he needs.  Another person whose necessary expenses are $1,000.00, and his income is $10,000.00, should give two tenths because he also has more than what he needs.  Another person whose expenses are $4,000.00 or $5,000.00 and his income is $100,000.00, should give one fourth.  Another person, whose income is $200.00, and his actual needs, just to exist on, amount to $500.00, who does his best in his work, but has had poor luck with his crops, such a person should receive help from the storehouse, that he may not starve, but have a decent living.'
'In every village the necessary means of support for all the orphans must be appropriated from the storehouse.  Also for the aged, the helpless, the unemployed, education, public health-for all these, appropriations must be made from the storehouse.'
'In case there is a surplus (in a storehouse) it should be turned over to the National Treasury for national expenditures.'
'By adopting such a system, every individual in society would live in the utmost comfort and happiness.  The different degrees would remain secure and undisturbed.  Because the difference in degrees are of the essential requirement for society.  Society is like unto an army.  For an army, a marshal is needed, a General is needed, a Commander is needed, a Captain is needed, and a private soldier is needed.  It is impossible to have them all of one rank.  The preservation of different ranks or degrees is necessary.  But every private soldier must live in the utmost ease and comfort.  Likewise, for every city, a judge is needed, a merchant is needed, the wealthy is needed, a tradesman is needed, a farmer is needed, etc.  No doubt, these different ranks must be preserved, or else, the general law and order will be upset.'
__________
Question:  'Will the ancient glory of the East ever returns?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'The East will be better.  How many great souls came to the world; how many of the wealthy; what kings sat on the thrones of honour and glory; what charming people were the models in the world's pleasure circle!  What was their end?  All their glory, life, pleasure and vigour, have perished.  But the song of the beauty of Joseph is still conquering the world, and the glory of the disciples is still enduring, and their hard labour is the cause of eternal life.'
__________
Question:  'What is your opinion about the New Messiah of the Theosophists?'
Page 348
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'The Theosophists are educating a child in European schools, that he may become the Promised One (Messiah) of all nations.  What thoughtlessness this is!  God must choose the Promised One, not the creatures.  A lamp lighted by the creatures, will be extinguished; but the Lamp of God is ever shining.  He who is educated by the creatures, will always be dependent upon the creatures.  How can he bestow everlasting wealth?  It is just as if a person wishes to make a sun out of a lamp, oil and wick.'
__________
On 18 July 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá hinted that soon He expected to leave the city of New York, and from that moment, many of the believers wept as they felt the sting of His separation.  Later, referring to the great spiritual souls who would appear among the believers, He said, 'My health and the heaps of work are my obstacles, otherwise it could be possible to inspire certain extraordinary souls from amongst the friends, and not until such souls are developed can the original aim be achieved.  At present, some have acquired zeal and capacity.  But those who would be chosen, are other persons.  Mullá Hasan and 'Abdu'l-Bahá were sent by the Mujtahid (Persian High Priest) to Bahá'u'lláh in Mázindarán.  As they saw Bahá'u'lláh, their souls became so inspired and vivified, that night and day, they did not have any rest for one moment, after suffering bitter persecution and ordeals, Mullá 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave his life in the field of sacrifice, and ascended to the Abhá Kingdom.  Likewise, Shaykh Hindí, who was sightless, after meeting Bahá'u'lláh in Mázindarán, spent the whole night singing until morning.  Such souls in the Cause of God must be of the elect.  Such souls are qualified to be in the field of service and self sacrifice.'
__________
On 20 August 1912, Mr F. Mortensen of Chicago, formerly of Minneapolis and Montana arrived at Green Acre.  Not having money to buy his railroad ticket, Mr. Mortensen chose to ride on the bumpers, between the wheels under the cars of the train, flirting with death, from Minneapolis to Green Acre.  He mingled with the friends, and not a soul knew anything about him.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá picked him out at once and with utmost kindness, He said to him, 'You are my guest here.'  He kept him a few days and gave him money to go home happily.  The outside world will never know how generous 'Abdu'l-Bahá was.  Suffice it to say that every day of His life, whether in poverty stricken Palestine, or in turbulent Syria and Egypt:  in European countries or in rich America,-'Abdu'l-Bahá was ever-ready to give a helping hand to any one who went to Him for help.  For one of His titles was, 'the Father and Friend of the Poor'.  Just imagine!  Now comes a poor pilgrim who has to return to Persia or some other country, who has no money.  Then there is the sick and the helpless.  There comes the student seeking money for education.  Here is a friend out of work, and there is another under a heavy debt.  In short:  He was the helper of all; and in order to do that, how many days would He deprive Himself
Page 349
from even the necessary food and comfort, that other sufferers be relieved.  Yes, He would even give away his garments to men who needed clothing.  Moreover, God only knows, how many innocent prisoners were made free by Him.  How many sons were returned to their lonely mothers after they were drafted for duty in Turkish battles.  How many stolen properties were recovered and given back to their owners.  How many have lived a happy life, and how many are still enjoying the blessings of His inexhaustible bounty.  And all this was only a part of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's work in this world.
__________
Speaking of man's heedlessness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, 'As long as the Divine Manifestations are among the creatures, the people do not appreciate them.  They curse and insult them.  But after their departure, they worship them, and many of the people, like these who are now camping outside of Green Acre, would live a solitary life.  Even they persecuted Columbus and some of the ancient doctors and philosophers, as Socrates; but later, they began to glory in their praise.'
__________
A minister from Portsmouth:  'The fanatics are persecuting me because I write and preach on your teachings.'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'In every affair, firmness brings forth good results.'
__________
A lady:  'I am unhappy today.  I am not contented with myself.'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'This is the sign of progress.  He who is contented with himself is a manifestation of Satan, and, he who is not contented with himself, is a manifestation of the Merciful One.  He who worships himself (selfish) can never progress, but he who finds faults in himself will try to perfect himself and will progress.  If a person has one thousand good qualities, he must pay no attention to them, nay, rather he must try to find his own faults.  For example:  If a person owns a building, properly decorated and strongly built, but if there is a crack in one of its walls or ceiling, undoubtedly he must forget everything else and start to repair the crack.  Moreover, absolute perfection is not possible for man.  Therefore, no matter how much he progresses, still he remains imperfect and there is a higher degree of perfection than his.  And whenever he looks at that higher degree, he cannot be contented with himself.  That was why when someone called His Holiness Christ, 'Good Master!'  He replied, 'There is only One Good, that is God'.'  The lady, 'I always speak on unity and the brotherhood of man.  I am very happy to see you in this country and hear these wonderful teachings.  I am going west to spread this message.'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'We must strive that hatred and opposition may pass away, and the souls may become free from the chains of superstitions.  You must serve in this path and be the cause of unity of mankind.'
On 23 August 1912, on his way to Malden, 'Abdu'l-Bahá stopped at the home of Miss Farmer to say good bye.  Many of the friends were present and it was a sad, sad hour.  The most eloquent tongue
Page 350
and the pen of the world's best writer can never and will never be able to describe how happy the true believer was on meeting and, how sad he became on leaving Him.  That is why whenever the hour of separation was at hand, you could see the eyes streaming with tears.  'We have finished our work here,' said He.  'We have planted a seed.  Souls have become very much attracted and uplifted.  Everyday I used to see presents, such as flowers, fruit, honey and candy, sent here by unknown friends.  This was an evidence of their sincerity and wholehearted faith.'
__________
An explanation
We wish to mention here in regard to the 'unfortunate event' referred to in the article ''Abdu'l-Bahá in America' by Dr Díyá Baghdádí, which appeared in the October 1928 Star of the West, as occurring in Philadelphia, that this event was in no way connected with 'Abdu'l-Bahá's association and contact with the people of Philadelphia, but occurred in His own entourage.  His visit to Philadelphia was most happy in every respect as regards His reception and experience in that city.
The dates given for the visit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Philadelphia in the October Star of the West were in error owing to an incompatibility in the translation of the Oriental calendar in which the Diary of Mírzá Mahmúd, who wrote the official account of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to America, was recorded.  Upon investigation we find that the dates throughout this article as given in the Western calendar, are one day off, and should have been as follows:
'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived in Philadelphia on the afternoon of Saturday, 8 June 1912.  He spoke in two prominent churches, the Baptist Temple and the Spring Garden Unitarian Church on Sunday, 9 June, and He spoke at the home of the Revells' on Monday, 10 June and left for New York in the afternoon of 10 June 1912.
'Abdu'l-Bahá was so pleased with the friends and the people, enjoyed the hospitality of the Revell family at their home and everything was so lovely that He Himself testified in writing in the following Tablet to M. Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney of Paris, France, 10 June, 1912, how wonderful were the Abhá confirmations while He was in Philadelphia:
'O thou kind friend!  Due to an invitation extended by two ministers and the plea of the friends of God, I went to Philadelphia for a few days.  Two splendid meetings were held at two churches and according to my incapacity I spoke.  But the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá were all encompassing and evident like unto the sun.  Though we are poor, yet He is the Possessor of Wealth.  In short, the blessed verse (of Bahá'u'lláh) 'And we shall make victorious whosoever arises to serve My Cause with the armies of the Supreme Concourse and a contingent of near angels,' has become clear and manifest. ...'
__________
(For details of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to Philadelphia, we would refer the readers to the Star of the West of 24 June 1914, and also 13 July 1914).


XIX:12, March 1929
page 357
The spring season
'Abdu'l-Bahá, in many of His Writings, draws a wonderful analogy between the material season of spring and the spiritual springtime.  We have gathered only a few of these important teachings for the compilation which follows.-Editor.
Page 358
When spring comes there is a divine wisdom in its appearance.  God has a special object in renewing the earth with its bounty.  For the dead earth is again made to blossom so that the life of plants and flowers may continue and be reproduced.  The trees put forth their leaves and are able to bear all kinds of delicious fruits.  All the birds and animals, everything with soul-life is rejoiced and rejuvenated in the coming of spring.  If this does not come to pass, it is not spring; it may be autumn.  But it is possible that spring may come and yet a tree rooted in bad ground will be deprived of its vivifying powers.  Or a fruitless tree may not bear, although the warm sun and vernal shower are descending upon it.
So likewise an evil soul may derive no benefit, produce no fruit from the coming of a Manifestation of God.  The divine springtime which brings forth spiritual flowers in other souls fails to beautify the soul that is evil.  In general, however, just as everything is vivified, refreshed and renewed by the bounty of the literal spring, so every soul receives some degree of illumination and growth from the Manifestation when He comes.  He is the Divine Spring which comes after the long winter of death and inaction.  The wisdom of God is seen in His coming.  He adorns the soul of man with new life, divine attributes and higher spiritual qualities.  By this the soul is enlightened, illumined.  That which is dark, gloomy and forbidding becomes light, hopeful and productive of new growth.  So in the Divine Springtime the blind receive sight, the deaf are made to hear, the dumb speak, the timid become courageous and the heedless awaken to new realizations.  In short they have become the image of that which God planned them to be and which the heavenly books promised shall be the true station of man.  This is the power, purpose and virtue of the Heavenly Spring.
(Ten Days in the Light of 'Akká, p. 57.)
Page 360
The time has arrived for the world of humanity to hoist the standard of the oneness of the human world, so that solidarity and unity may bind together all the nations of the world, so that dogmatic formulas and superstitions may end, so that the essential reality underlying all the religions founded by the Prophets may be revealed.
That Reality is one.
It is the love of God, the progress of the world, the oneness of humanity.
That Reality is the bond which can unite all the human race.
That Reality is the attainment of the benefits of the most great peace, the discarding of warfare.
That Reality is progressiveness, the undertaking of the colossal tasks in life, the oneness of public opinion.
Therefore strive, O ye people! and put forth your efforts that this Reality may overcome the lesser forces in life, that this King of Reality may alone rule all humanity.
Thus may the world of mankind be reformed.  Thus may a new springtime be ushered in and a fresh spirit may resuscitate mankind.
The individuals of humanity, like refreshed plants, will put forth leaves and blossoms and fruit, so that the face of the earth will become the long promised and delectable paradise, so that the great bestowal, the supreme virtues of man will glisten over the face of the earth.  Then shall the world of existence have attained maturity.
This is my message.


XIX:12, March 1929
page 378
'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
Chapter X
From the account of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's daily activities and words while in America, furnished us by Dr Díyá Baghdádí, we have here taken but a few quotations, for the most part those never before published.  The Addresses of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America were published in early volumes of this magazine and later collected and published in book form in two volumes under the title, 'The Promulgation of Universal Peace'.-Editor.
Question:  'You have made it clear to us that the soul is immortal, but what will become of the soul of the wicked and the unbeliever in the next world?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'All realities and souls or spirits are immortal.  Even the soul of the unbeliever and the spiritually defective are immortal.  But when these are compared with holy souls and sanctified spirits, they are not worth mentioning.  It is just like this wood, which has an existence, but in comparison to the existence of man, it is as if non-existent.'
Question:  'Is it right to take revenge in the case of a criminal, and, how can crimes be controlled?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'People have no right to take revenge.  But the government must protect the lives, property and honour of the people.  The more material education is increased, the greater will be the temptations for committing crimes.  But spiritual education is an inspiration for benevolent deeds and human perfections.  We are hopeful that crimes may pass away, and day by day the spiritual perfections increase.'
Page 379
Question:  'What relation has nature to God?  Is God in all things, or is He an independent power and nature is His creation?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Some of the philosophers believe that God is an Infinite Reality.  That a spark from that Infinite Reality exists in every human being.  That God is the possessor of the greatest power.  That all contingent beings-all created things-manifest or express Him according to their capacities.  Thus the Supreme Being, the Creator, is transfigured into infinite forms.  This is the theory of Plato.  But we explain that the Supreme Being, who is knowable to the mind, comprehended and understood by us, is He who dominates and animates all things.  That all things are like the elements, and, He is like the spirit, which animates and dominates them.  Even like the human body which is composed of elements, is animated and dominated by the soul.  Also, compared with the human body, all matter as a whole, is animated and dominated by a Power-the Supreme Being.  But the Real Supreme Being is not He who is knowable, who can be comprehended by the limited, finite human mind; nay, rather, He is Himself, the One who exists, animates and dominates by Himself, and by Whom all things are created.  All things are the product of His work and He rules all things.
'We call Him the Supreme Being because we need a term to express ourselves, not that He can be comprehended by us.  Our aim is to explain about how things find their existence.  All things find their existence in two ways.  One, by manifestation, the other, by emanation.  For example this flower has appeared on this tree.  This is called realization by manifestation.  The other, is like these rays which emanate from the sun.  This is called realization by emanation.  In like MANNER, ALL CREATED THINGS HAVE EMANATED FROM THAT REAL SUPREME BEING-GOD-AND THEREFORE, NATURE AND ALL CREATION ARE FROM HIM AND NOT HE FROM THEM.'
__________
Question:  'Did God create evil in the world?'
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'In the world of existence there is no evil.  Evil is nothingness and whatever is in existence is good.  Ignorance is evil, and that is the absence of knowledge.  Evil has no material or outward existence.  Thus, evil is the absence of good; poverty is the absence of wealth; injustice is the absence of justice; imperfection is the absence of perfection.  These opposites are referred to absence or nothingness, not to existence.'
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá made a unique differentiation between the different types of the rich and the poor when He said:
'The patient poor are better than the thankful rich.  But the thankful poor are better than the patient poor.  And the best of all is the rich-giver who is free from temptations or tests, who becomes the cause of the happiness of mankind.  Though through thanksgiving blessings are increased, yet the most perfect thanksgiving is through giving, and the station of giving is the highest of all stations.  Just as it is said in the Qur'án, 'Ye shall never receive blessings until ye give of that which ye love.'
Page 380
A king at the time of his death wished he was of the poor class.  'I wish I was poor!' he exclaimed.  'In the first place, I would not have ruled with injustice, and, in the second place, at the last moment, I would not be in such a state of remorse and regret!'  A poor man who heard him say this exclaimed, 'Thank God that at the time of death, the kings wish to be poor, but we, the poor, at the time of death never desire to say we wish we were kings'!'
__________
Green Acre:  'Abdu'l-Bahá visited Miss Sarah Farmer, the founder of this Bahá'í Centre.  He called on her not because she was an idealist and a sincere lover of mankind, but because she was an invalid.  For one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's ethical laws was to visit the sick and cheer the invalid.  He would even call on his bitter enemies whenever they were ill and help them in the time of need.
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  'Green Acre must be made the centre for the investigation of reality, not that everybody should come and use it as a place of propaganda for his own ideas and benefits.  The Shining Reality which is the Spirit of the world today is One and not many.'
__________
On 25 August 1912, Bahá'ís from Boston and Green Acre came to see Him and in the afternoon, He addressed the New Thought Society in Boston.  On the following day, when a group of old faithful believers came to see Him, he said, 'This meeting is an evidence of faithfulness that we have not forgotten each other.  In the world of existence, there is no greater quality than faithfulness.  Love cannot be disturbed by the passing of time.  Consider how faithful were those souls in Persia, who while under the sword, remembered Bahá'u'lláh, and neither calamities, nor sufferings could prevent them from remaining loyal, and on the alter of sacrifice, they cried from their hearts and souls, 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!' (O Thou Glory of God!)  This is the quality of faithfulness!'
Montreal:  While riding through the City with Mr Sutherland Maxwell, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, glancing at a school:
'Because of the fact that in these schools only material things and natural philosophy are being taught, therefore, no genius students of great mental power can be found.  Whenever divine and natural philosophy are studied together, then there will be wonderful souls and greater progress can be achieved.  This was the cause of progress in (ancient) Greek schools.  They used to teach both divine and natural or material philosophy.'
Passing by a Unitarian Church, he remarked, 'Tomorrow we will raise the divine call in this place.'  On approaching the Church of Notre Dame, he stopped to see it for a few minutes.  'Behold what the eleven Disciples have done:  What a self sacrifice did they display!  This I say unto you, that you should walk in their footsteps.  When man becomes severed (from worldly things) he will transform a world.  The disciples of Christ held a meeting up on the mountain and made agreements with each other to endure any sort of calamity; to regard every ordeal as a blessing and every difficulty as an ease; the
Page 381
married man was to free his wife; the bachelor to remain single, sacrificing comfort and life.  That was the way it happened.  As they descended from the mountain, every one of them hastened in a certain direction, never to return!  This is how they left behind them such achievements as a souvenir.  After His Holiness Christ, the disciples indeed, became earnestly selfless, not selfless in words.'
__________
To 'Abdu'l-Bahá, thrift and economy had but one place, where He surely practiced them that one place was no other than Himself.  For example.  On leaving the Windsor Hotel, in Montreal, He wanted to board a street car.  'A taxi cab will be more comfortable for you,' some one suggested.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, 'That is nothing.  In this way one dollar difference is saved.'  But when He reached the Maxwell home, lo and behold! the first thing He did was to see the butler, the nurse, and the maid, and give to each one a five dollar gold piece!
__________
On 3 September 1912, one of the first callers was the President of the Montreal University.  To him 'Abdu'l-Bahá explained the Bahá'í Principles and in conclusion He added, 'These are the aims of the people of Bahá'u'lláh.  Do you not wish to do the same work?  You also should strive that the real oneness of the world of humanity may be realized; that mankind may be free from prejudices and relieved from wars and conflicts.  It is for this that we are striving.  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has opened a wide door for all.  For example, at a time when people of different religions, countries, races, and nationalities, believing each other to be infidels, cursed and outcast, He addressed the inhabitants of the world, saying, 'O people! of the world!  Ye all are the leaves of one tree and the fruits of one branch'.'
__________
Speaking of children, said: 'Children are the adornment of the house.  A house without a child is like a house without light.'  Turning His face to Mr Maxwell and to all the gathered friends, He continued:  'You must adhere to whatever is the cause of happiness of the world of humanity.  Show affection to the orphans.  Feed the hungry.  Clothe the needy.  Give a helping hand to the unfortunate.  Then you will be favoured at the Divine Court.'
__________
On 7 September 1912, addressing the public in the parlour of the hotel in Montreal, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Just as in the physical world there are four seasons, in the world of religion there is also a divine spring season and spiritual springtime.  When the divine outpourings cease, the trees of existence lose their freshness, and lack of life prevails on the farms, then it is like winter.  The souls become depressed and low; the country of the hearts becomes choked with weeds and thorns; not a rose and not a flower; no beauty, no charm, and no pleasure.  Therefore, the divine springtime starts again.  This is the divine law and the requirement of the creative world; this is the cause of the continuous appearance of the Holy Manifestations and the renewal of religious laws and ordinances."
[end of Vol. XIX]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 29-30.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 38.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá"  Lights of Guidance, No. 1370, p. 413-4.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá in Tablet to Edward B. Kinney.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, p. 378.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Divine Philosophy, p. 77.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, VIII:19, 2 March 1918, p. 238.
1	Refer to 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, pp. 382-3.
1	'Ishqábád means "City of Love".
2	Gateway for carriages or vehicles leading into a courtyard.-M.W.T.
3	A similar passage is to be found in Star of the West, XV:7, p. 208.-M.W.T.
4	Refer to The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 116ff.
5	Dates corrected according the explanation in Star of the West, XIX:11, p. 350, later in this file.-M.W.T.
6	Refer to the explanation in Star of the West, XIX:11, p. 350, later in this file.-M.W.T.
7	or 'light-giver'.-M.W.T.
