This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  November and December 2000.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
from the George Ronald Book 6 reprint of
Star of the West1
Volume X, Nos 6-19 (24 June 1919-2 March 1920)
and
Volume XI, Nos 1-18 (21 March 1920-7 February 1921)


X:6, 24 June 1919
page 98
Glad Tidings!
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá quoted by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb at the Eleventh Annual Mashriqu'l-Adhkár Convention.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the Sun of Reality hath shone forth!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the illumination of heavenly brotherhood hath encircled the East and the West!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the doors of the Kingdom of mercy are wide open!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the melody of the Supreme Concourse hath reached the ears of every old and young one!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the banquet of the Lord is spread in the assemblages of the friends!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the period of bloodshed and carnage hath passed away and the century of universal peace and the gathering together of the nations of the earth hath dawned upon us!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the weeping eyes are made joyous and laughing, and ere long the diamond age of the Kingdom of Abhá will be established in the hearts!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  For the sleepy ones are awakened and the negligent ones are made mindful!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the call of the Merciful is raised, the resurrection is set up, the dead are resuscitated, the lame are dancing like unto the gazelles, the deaf are endowed with hearing and the dumb are granted the power of speech!
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the breaths of the Holy Spirit confer life and day by day the world of humanity advances toward the goal of perfection.
O ye inhabitants of the world, awaken ye!  Awaken ye!
O ye factions of the earth, become ye mindful!  Become ye mindful!
O ye devotees of religions, obtain life!  Obtain life!
O ye sects and denominations, move ye!  Move ye!
O ye lovers of the beauty of the True One, become ye self-sacrificing!  Become ye self-sacrificing!
O ye enkindled ones!  O ye supplicating ones!  Become ye the confidants of the mysteries!  Become ye the confidants of the mysteries!
O ye birds of the rose-garden of Abhá!  Sing ye the anthems of mercy!  Break ye into the songs of beatitude!
O ye brilliant stars of the heaven of God!  Shine ye!  Shine ye!
O ye teachers of the Cause of the Supreme Lord!  Travel ye, teach ye!  Destroy ye the foundation of hatred, malice and contention from amongst the children of men, and lay ye the basis of the palace of love and universal peace!


X:6, 24 June 1919
page 99
Unveiling of the Divine plan for the Southern States1
Second Talk by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb at the Eleventh Annual Mashriqu'l-Adhkár Convention and Bahá'í Congress held in McAlpin Hotel, New York City, 26-30 April 1919.
page 103
...
And now I must bring this second talk to a close by quoting to you two short talks of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Here is the first.  Having looked over and corrected the second Tablet to the South, he handed it to me, saying:
"Come, my son, take it.  I have corrected it.  The importance of this Tablet will be revealed in the future.  In these vast sixteen states the lights of the Sun of Reality shall shine with great power and the dark clouds of ignorance and human prejudices will be dispelled from its horizon.  Mr Gregory must demonstrate a self-sacrificing spirit in teaching the Cause amongst the black race, diffuse the fragrances of God in every part of the South, and let his cry of 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!' reach to the apex of heaven, in their meetings, gatherings, churches, colleges and schools.  The believers of God with the utmost firmness and steadfastness must go forth and teach the heavenly institutes to the inhabitants of the South.  They must not turn their faces from any difficulty.  Like unto a waving sea they must be tumultuous and full of divine acclamation, and similar unto the thankful birds they must be always singing the songs of love, light and life.  Every person in accordance with his capability and ability must engage in teaching the Cause of God and show an effort in the illumination of the souls, so that praiseworthy results may appear and become manifest from him.  I desire nothing else from the believers of those States save teaching the Cause of His Highness, the Almighty.  See with what love, with what attraction, with what exhilaration I wrote this Tablet for them.  One of
page 111
the wisdoms of this universal war is no other than the writing of these Epistles, so that the believers may realize that the Cause of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh must ultimately encircle the globe.  Having thus clearly perceived their duty they will spare no effort to hasten its consummation.
"The prominent believers of the South, like Mr Remey, Mr Hannen, Mrs Parsons, Mr Gregory and others must come together, hold meetings of consultation and devise efficient ways and means for the teaching of the people of this great section and promote amongst the inhabitants the spirit of brotherhood, unity and the love of His Holiness Christ and Bahá'u'lláh.  Do thou present thyself in their meetings, and through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit make them realize and feel how this question of teaching is one of the utmost importance in the Cause.  Tell them:  'Do not let your thoughts and ideals be crystallized around particular matters.  Close your eyes to outward differences and look upon each other with the eye of universal oneness.  Like unto the cup-bearers of eternity turn ye round in the assemblages of mankind the overflowing goblets of guidance and intoxicate them with the wine of the love of God.  Walk ye always in the pathway of lights and let the pillars of shining Bahá'í inspiration lead and direct you to your glorious destination.  Let your thoughts be of Bahá'u'lláh, your mention be of Bahá'u'lláh, and fill all hearts with the truth of Bahá'u'lláh.  Like unto the sanctified souls, associate ye with the people of the world and show ye that which ye have.  Do ye not hide the precious jewels of the Kingdom under the earth.  This day is the day of revelation!  This Manifestation is the manifestation of knowledge and understanding.'"
The second talk was given one morning in February, 1918, while he was walking in his lovely garden.  The names of the Southern States were brought to his attention, and his face was suddenly brightened with the light of inspiration.  Then, as he continued his walk, he uttered the following poetic message, redolent with the fragrance of the garden of Abhá:
"Praise be to God, that the dark ages have passed away and the century of light has come.  Praise be to God, that the traces of prejudices and superstitions are effaced, and the horizon of the minds and the hearts of humanity are broadened.  Praise be to God, that the seas of the idle fancies of the religionists are calmed down and the oceans of the realities and significances of the Blessed Perfection are set in motion.  Praise be to God, that the gloomy nights of ignorance have flitted away across the receding ages, and the bright dawn of intelligence and wisdom is becoming visible.  Praise be to God, that the cold winter of fanaticism and bigotry, with its chilling hand and irrational heterodoxy has come to an end, and the soul-refreshing springtime of the imperishable flowers and hyacinths of universal love and toleration, has dawned, perfuming all the nostrils with the sweet odours of trust and confidence.  Praise be to God, that the black clouds of human limitations and man-made restrictions are dispelled, and the world-enlightening Sun of the Kingdom hath dawned from the horizon of the hearts!  Praise be to God that the chains of injustice and the fetters of the oppression of the Pharaohs of the earth and the despotic rulers of men have crumbled to dust, and the age of justice, equity, brotherhood and real democracy is inaugurated.  Praise be to God that the crowns of the
page 112
despots have fallen to the earth, and the thrones of the absolutists are shaken to the foundation.  But the real diadems of glory and power and the royal seats of just governments and democratic institutions were raised high.  Praise be to God, that the period of satanic suggestions hath come to a close, and the cycle of angelic ideals and seraphic thoughts hath opened before the eyes of men.
"The past age was an age of wondrous achievements.  All the inventions were perfected, new discoveries created, new fields of human activities, new undertakings gave deeper significance to the law of co-operation; new arts helped to make life more beautiful and new international laws are now in the process of formation to bind all nations of the earth together.  The international tribunal of justice will soon be organized in accordance with the principles of Bahá'u'lláh, and then all the differences will be adjusted before the members of that impartial tribunal.
"Therefore, as a result of these changes in the outward world, it has become part of the heavenly wisdom in the inner world to create a new spiritual plan for the propagation of the religion of God; thus the divine believers may obtain a new joy and a new happiness and display an extraordinary effort in the promotion of the reality of the religions of God; to deliver the nations from old, superannuated prejudices and diffuse the fragrances of the flowers of the primal truth; to unfurl the flag of the love, amity and the oneness of the world of humanity and remove the international misunderstandings from amongst the nations of the world.  From their hearts and souls they must cry out:
[Here followed the proclamation on page 98, beginning:  "Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  That the Sun of Reality hath shone forth!"]
"The lights of the oneness of the world of humanity are scintillating like unto precious jewels; scatter their rays to all parts!  Upraise ye the banner of unity, fraternity, co-operation and reciprocity amongst all the people; so that there may not be left from prejudice aught save a name and from ignorance not even a shadow; the religion of God may pitch its tent over the East and the West, the light of the Kingdom may illumine all hearts, perfect agreement and association may be realized between races, religions and nativities, and the world of creation may find composure and tranquillity."
On another occasion, he said:  "Give my greeting to the friends in Washington and say:  'O ye believers of God!  I am always thinking of the days that I associated with you.  Never will I forget you and the spiritual meetings held in your city.  I beg from the favours of the Blessed Perfection that ye may become assisted to promote the Cause of God and promulgate the Word of God in the Southern States, that just as Washington is the political centre of the American Republic, she may become the dawning-place of merciful susceptibilities and celestial feelings.  Arise ye without any fear in the promulgation of the religion of God!  Become ye firmly rooted in this great aim, send ye teachers to all directions, and become ye not apprehensive that ye meet strong opposition.  The contradiction of others is more conducive to the strength of the Cause of God.  Ever do I beg for you divine confirmation.  My spirit is with each one of you.  Do ye not look upon your own capacities.  Rest ye assured in the bounties of the Blessed Perfection.  He shall change the drop into an ocean and the moth into an eagle.  He changes the stone into the precious ruby and the scintilla1 into the world-illuminating sun.  Open ye the eloquent tongues and day and night consult with each other regarding the promotion of the Cause of God, so that in the end you may crown your heads with this diadem and carrying in your hands the swords of light, ye may conquer the kingdoms of the hearts.'"


X:6, 24 June 1919
page 104
Tablet revealed for a well-known Bahá'í of Tihrán
[Letter from Shoghi Rabbání, dated 25 April 1919, containing recent Tablet revealed for a well-known Bahá'í of Teheran, ended with the following paragraph.]
page 105
May I end this letter of mine with the translation of one of the most important Tablets that have been recently revealed to a well-known friend in Tihrán?:
Tablet to a Persian Bahá'í
O thou honourable martyr and the pioneer of the Cause of God!
The letter which you had written on the 19 December 1918, arrived the 5 February 1919.  In spite of lack of time it was read with the utmost attention together with the enclosed letters.  It gave us the glad tidings of the good health, safety, joy and fragrance of the friends of the Merciful.  In this day one cannot conceive of greater news,
page 106
for in these years of agitation heart were in anxiety and affliction.  This universal storm was so bewildering, so terrific, so frightful that reason could not conceive that this oppressed people would be protected and safe in all countries.  This is only from the decisive and extraordinary power of His Highness the Desired One-May the spirit of existence be sacrificed to the feet of His friends!
Consider that in all countries these oppressed people were in the hands of tyrants; in the days of peace and concord, of general tranquillity and comfort they were without help and support, subject to every tyrant, and inflicted with every calamity.  Now, thanks to the assistance and favour of the Eternal Beauty, such a great miracle has become manifest and clear.  During the years when all the peoples of the world were in infinite trouble and torment, in the utmost distress, commanded, subjugated, deprived and devoid of reason, these oppressed ones, through the power of the divine teachings and of everlasting confirmation, were everywhere in the utmost tranquillity and composure.
What miracle greater than this?  If any one stops to think one instant, he will not find a greater proof.
Although 'Abdu'l-Bahá had striven to the utmost of his power in this praiseworthy Cause prior to the declaration of the war, and so much have we said and spoken in connection with the lines of conduct, but without the favour of God we are nothing, absolutely nothing.  This brilliant victory and this remarkable protection are exclusively ascribed to the blessings of the Eternal Beauty-May my spirit be a sacrifice to His friends!-otherwise human power is absolutely impotent.  The tastes and inclinations of the people of Persia have decidedly changed; religious habits have disappeared and eventually unworthy habits may prevail in Persia.  But rest assured the power of the Cause of God shall conquer and waves from this infinite sea shall surge and shall roll away, casting out upon the shore these foams, and verily our legions shall have the victory.
This is what He says in explicit terms in the Ishráqát:  "Religion is a brilliant light and a strong fortress for the protection and comfort of the people of the world.  If the lamp of religion remains veiled, chaos will take place, the luminary of justice and of equity, and the sun of rest and security, will be deprived of light.  Any one who knows will ever bear witness."
Reflect what has been perpetrated by the miserable party in Russia!  How they have destroyed this imposing empire and caused this mighty edifice to crumble into dust, and at present they are in a hopeless state.  The state of affairs has become so acute that the pure and chaste women of Russia have brought their complaint before the great powers of the League of Nations, saying that this unprincipled party is forcing us to become public property.  High and low, everyone has been vilified.  The veil of shame has been entirely rent asunder and the mass of the people have attained a stage of savagery.
Consider, that fifty years ago the Supreme Pen foretold these events:  "Verily, our armies will have the victory."  Soon they will find themselves disappointed and at a loss and they will have to follow the commands.
In Persia we see now the beginning of heedlessness and the first manifestations of neglecting religion.  If this state of things is not.  stopped by the power of the divine teachings, it will soon be chaos and distress, eternal vileness and shame.  I take refuge in God in this impossible assumption.
The sacred Manifestations were not known in the first cycles and the fruit of their mission had not been discovered.  But in this spiritual age, in this divine time the exaltation and the luminosity, the truth and the greatness of the Cause of God have become manifest and evident as the sun in all regions.  All wise men
page 107
witness that these divine teachings arc the very spirit of this age, and the light of this cycle; humanity will never find peace and tranquillity without the spreading of these teachings, nor will it attain perfect civilization.
In all temples, gatherings, assemblies of the West 'Abdu'l-Bahá has spread these teachings most forcibly.  Not a single person could oppose him, nobody raised an objection.  Everyone listened and with great applause and in the utmost respect manifested their approval No one was found who said:  "This is only the legends of the past."  Even in a meeting of atheists a detailed address was delivered.  Everybody approved of it and it was published in the American papers.  Likewise in Oxford (England) an address was given, and also at the University of California in San Francisco [Leland Stanford, Jr. University; Palo Alto] were explained a part of the divine teachings.  Everywhere I met with approval, but the Persians are still asleep.  So great a blessing has been manifested in Persia, such a bejewelled crown has been set on its head-but a thousand times alas! that the Persians do not appreciate it and are suffering from neglecting religion.  May God end it well.  Praise be to God!  All future events were clearly, openly and explicitly revealed in previous Tablets, some fifty years ago, others thirty years ago.  All have come to pass, and yet the Persians are negligent!
The Eternal Beauty-Glory be to His Greatest Name!-proclaimed this Supreme Cause under fetters, hoisted this remarkable standard in the midst of prison and has given rise to such commotion!  Yet the Persians are slumbering!  The people of the West consider the East as inhabited by wild tribes and refer to it as a vile race, low and unfavoured; now the power of the Greatest Name has had this deep effect in the hearts of the people of the West and in all the countries of the world there are groups respecting Persia.
Notwithstanding the manifestations of this great power, the Persians are still unaware and are immersed in heedlessness.  Be admonished, ye people of light!  The one to whom God has refused the light, he is deprived thereof.
In brief, we hope that the friends of God will be confirmed in the path of guidance and will remain and abide at the threshold of the Eternal Beauty.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 25 April 1919.


X:6, 24 June 1919
page 107
"Every latest (new) order should be acted upon because the general conditions vary and change"
Recent Tablets to Dr Baghdádí
To his honour Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, Illinois.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy numerous and successive letters have been perused in their meanings, and now we answer thee these general inquiries which thou hast asked.  This is of my love for thee and tenderness toward thee.  I ask God to confirm all in spirit and fragrance, to change every darkness into light that will illumine the universe; to make the hearts united and combined as the mixing of water and wine, so that all may arise for the elevation of the Word of God and the diffusion of the teachings of God; the abandonment of every mention that does not inherit a gift from God.
...
As to Mr George Lesch:  Verily, he has attained to the meeting of his Lord in the Kingdom of Abhá, and he is saying, "I wish my people knew how my
page 108
Lord has forgiven me, and made me the sign of mercy in the world of light."
As to the turning of the coloured race to the praise-worthy station:  This is a matter that was promised in the Scriptures and the Tablets by the affectionate Lord.  Therefore, we have rejoiced in the great glad tidings and we desire that the unity may be increased between the white and the black and the difficulties vanish, so that they may become intimates, strong in faithfulness, and as brothers reclining on the couches face to face, attracted to the manifest light.
...
Concerning the book of his honour Mírzá Mahmúd-i-Zarqání:  It is acceptable if you translate and distribute it, especially among the friends.
As to the Chinese, Japanese and Hindu students:  It is acceptable to receive them into your gatherings.
Concerning the printing of the Tablets and the Epistles:  It is conditioned and depends upon the opinion of the Executive Board of the Convention, so that it may not be the cause of disturbing the minds.
Every latest order (new) should be acted upon because the general conditions vary and change; therefore, a new order is issued to readjust the old order.
As to the Star of the West:  It is better if the English is mixed with the Persian.  His honour Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb has acquired skilfulness in the Persian in these later days.
As to all the epistles and the books pertaining to the Cause:  They must be under the management of the Executive Board of the Convention. ...
As to the souls whose consciences are clarified, whose secrets are sweetened, who have become assured in the mention of their Lord, who have sincerely turned their faces to God and who have travelled in the East of the earth and its West, its South and its North for the diffusion of the fragrances of God, unquestionably the merciful confirmations, the divine assistance shall reach them under all conditions and circumstances.  Joy be unto the souls who help this illumined group and spiritual party.
As to the Epistles, The Secret of Divine Civilization and the Traveler's Narrative:  Verily, they are the important epistles which vivify and civilize the souls and educate them with the best virtues and the best of politics.  Therefore, attach ye to them great importance, and ye, O ye who are noble, do not waste your time in discussions that are useless and from which no benefit can be obtained; it is incumbent upon ye to elevate the Word of God and to spread the fragrances of God.
In these days a letter was received from his honour Ibn-i-Asdaq, saying that he had sent you articles in order that they be published in the Star of the West; their distribution is acceptable.
Convey my greetings and my longing to all the friends in that country of the vast regions.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
25 April 1919.
__________
As to thy inquiry about travelling to nearby towns out of Chicago for the promulgation of the divine teachings:  It is acceptable if thou dost continue in this work.
As to the House of Spirituality:  It is the name for the group, the committee, and it is the best of all the names.
Convey my greeting and praise to the maid-servant of God, Mrs Grace Anderson, and say unto her:  "Verily, I bury my face in the dust of supplication and invocation and I pray for thee to God to make thee free from every hindrance and attachment in the life of this world, so that thou mayest be clothed with the garment of holiness in the Kingdom of Abhá, and become sanc-
page 109
tified from the darkness of the world of nature and its limitations, enkindled with the fire of the love of God and attracted to the fragrances of God.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
18 May 1919.


X:6, 24 June 1919
page 109
"The economic teachings shall, henceforth, be written in detail"
Recent Tablet to Juliet Thompson
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Juliet Thompson, New York City-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Numerous letters have been received from you and their contents noted.  At present the presentation of a letter to the Presidents is not advisable, for they are occupied.
Convey my respectful greeting to Mrs Barbee of St. Louis and say:  "I hope that in this nether world thou shalt attain unto heavenly light, thou wilt free the souls from the gloom of nature, which is the animal kingdom, and cause them to reach lofty stations in the human kingdom.  Today all people are immersed in the world of nature.  That is why thou dost see jealousy, greed, the struggle for survival, deception, hypocrisy, tyranny, oppression, disputes, strife, bloodshed, looting and pillaging, which all emanate from the world of nature.  Few are those who have been freed from this darkness, who have ascended from the world of nature to the world of man, who have followed the divine Teachings, have served the world of humanity, are resplendent, merciful, illumined and like unto a rose garden.  Strive thine utmost to become godlike, characterized with His attributes, illumined and merciful, that thou mayest be freed from every bond and become attached at heart to the Kingdom of the incomparable Lord.  This is Bahá'í bounty, and this is heavenly light."1
Convey to the maid-servant of God _____ greeting and kindness.  On her behalf I supplicate and entreat at the Kingdom of Abhá, in the utmost humility and lowliness, that she may be assisted to conduct herself in accordance with the divine teachings.
...
Convey my message to Mrs Lehmann and say:  "Service to the friends is service to the Kingdom of God, and the consideration shown to the poor is one of the greatest instructions of God."
Convey on my behalf the utmost kindness to Mr Comfort (Will Livingston Comfort) and say:  "When in the midnight hour the eye is awakened, affectionate sentiments are felt."
...
Say unto _____ and _____ "Strive as much as you can to turn wholly toward the Kingdom, that ye may acquire innate courage and an ideal power."
...
Convey on my behalf the utmost respect to Rev. Van Kirk and say:  "Reflect upon the past events during the time of Christ; present events shall become clear and manifest."
...
Convey my message to Frieda Bullinger and say:  "If until eternity thou remainest grateful to Mrs Grace, thou shalt not acquit thyself, for she has
page 110
caused thee to harken to the divine call and to turn thy face to the divine Kingdom.  I hope that thou shalt acquire health and prosperity."
The economic teachings shall, henceforth, be written in detail.
...
Convey my greeting to Dr Guthrie and Mr Ledoux.  From the bounties of God I ask that these two souls may be the cause of the promulgation of divine teachings, may proclaim the oneness of the world of humanity, may spread the cause of universal peace, that ignorant, religious, racial, political and even patriotic prejudices may vanish and the earth may become one home and all peoples be unified; and the same with the other divine teachings which are recorded in the Tablets and Epistles.
Convey my greeting to Dr Guthrie and Kalil Gibran [Khalíl Jubrán] and say:  "In the future some Tablets will be sent that ye may translate them, and, having translated them, print them."
To Mr Bouck White say:  "If thou seekest real liberty, thou shalt find it in the Bahá'í Movement."
...
Convey to each and all the friends the most wonderful Abhá greeting. ...
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 4 April 1919, Haifa, Palestine.


X:6, 24 June 1919
page 110
"Undoubtedly, the standard of universal peace shall be unfurled"
Recent Tablet to Mrs J. Stannard of London, England.
O thou who art attracted to the Kingdom of God!
Thy letter dated 26 December was received.  I praised the Lord for having protected the friends all throughout the war that has now subsided.  All mankind was held in the grip of anguish, and calamities afflicted every soul, while the safety of the friends constituted one of the greatest gifts.  For that we thank God and pray that He may confer upon every one that which will illumine the hearts, refresh the souls, bestow light to the eyes and brighten the visions; and that is the dawn of the Sun of Truth upon all regions, from the horizon of universal peace.
Praise be to God, whatever was recorded fifty years ago in the Tablets and Epistles, has in these days been fully realized.  Undoubtedly the standard of universal peace shall be unfurled, its legions shall conquer, its call shall be raised, its rays shall beam forth upon all lands.  At present it is only the dawn of its morn, for its sun shall shine in full splendour upon all regions.  As to thee, rest thou assured in the bounty of thy Lord, and if possible travel thou to the Holy Land and thence to Egypt or Europe as thou choosest.
Convey greetings and praise to the friends and maid-servants of the Merciful.  In the utmost humility and lowliness I entreat the powerful, and the Omnipotent God that He may confirm them with that which pleases Him; that He may draw the hearts together, cause displeasure to vanish in the twinkling of the eye, and that thou mayest be the cause of joy and fragrance among the servants of the Merciful.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 30 January 1919, Haifa, Palestine.


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 115
The heart
Lesson by Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl given to Mrs Corinne True, summer of 1914.
Interpreted by M. Ishti'ál Ibn-i-Kalántar.2  Read at the Second Bahá'í Teaching Convention of the Central States, 23-25 May 1919.
The likeness of the world is like the body of man; the likeness of God is like the spirit in the body.  As the spirit pervades and controls the whole body, so likewise God pervades and controls the whole universe.  As none of the limbs on the body of man are in communication with the spirit in the body of man and not one of the five senses can ever feel the spirit, therefore, God has created the heart in man to be the central ruler and has endowed it with two phases, spiritual and material.  Through its spiritual phase the heart absorbs the commandments of the spirit, and then through its material phase it transmits them to all parts of the body through the agency of the organs, veins, arteries, muscles, etc.
Likewise all the different particles of the universe are beyond having any communication with God, but God, the Supreme Ruler, chooses one man from among the world and makes him to be the heart to the body of the universe and calls him the Word of God.  This man or centre is Moses, Jesus, Bahá'u'lláh-according to the different cycles or ages-and is endowed with two phases, spiritual and material.  Through his spiritual faculty he receives the teachings and bounties of the Almighty God and then imparts them to the world through material means in which he shares with other men.  This Centre is, according to the spirit, the recipient of the divine names and attributes, while in regard to his material side he is no other than a man and shares their material requirements such as eating, sleeping, etc., and it is for this reason that Christians always testify to the fact that Jesus Christ was both a perfect God and a perfect man.  The Christian testimony of Christ being a perfect God 'proves' his being the manifestation of divine power, glory, grandeur and might, and the Christian testimony to his being a perfect man 'proves' that he should be perfectly endowed with material requirements such as eating, sleeping, etc., inasmuch as if any of such requirements are not perfect in him, it would be as a flaw in his perfection.
It is not possible for the body of man to be established without its being fortified by the heart, so likewise the body of the universe can never continue in a perfect establishment unless it is enlightened by the Word of God.  The likeness of the Word of God in the body of the universe is like the heart in the body of man.  Therefore this primal Word is always in the universe, but the difference is that sometimes it manifests itself to the people while at some other time it is concealed and people are veiled from its presence.  For instance, Moses was the Word of God and in manifestation, and Joshua was also
page 116
the Word in concealment.  But had Joshua manifested himself in this name he would have to bring new laws and ordinances.  All the Jewish prophets have been the manifestation of the Word of God in concealment.  Jeremiah 1:10:  "See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out and to pull down and to destroy and to throw down, to build and to plant," proves that these prophets were the Word.  In that day God appointed Jeremiah to do those things and gave him the power, and those who denied Jeremiah denied God himself.  The same was said to Peter, and had men denied Peter, they would in reality have denied Jesus.
Likewise Bahá'u'lláh appointed 'Abdu'l-Bahá to be the Centre of his Covenant and endowed him with great power, and those who deny him in this day have denied God and His Cause.
In every age and dispensation the distinction between a believer and a denier would become manifest by his belief in or denying the appointed successor of the Word of God.  For instance, if among the followers of Moses one denied David, Jeremiah, et. al., this would be a proof of his lack of faith in Moses.
As it is proved that not one part of the body can ever move unless the heart is cognizant thereof, so likewise no one of the people of the world can do anything anywhere unless the Manifestation of God, the Word, is cognizant of it.


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 116
The mysterious forces of civilization
Address by Albert R. Windust, delivered at the Third Session of the Bahá'í Compress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Sunday evening, 27 April 1919.
When we look out upon this phenomenal existence of which we are a part, we find distinctive planes which the mind of man has classified and named:  The mineral kingdom, the vegetable kingdom, the animal kingdom, and the human kingdom.
If we investigate any one of these planes we find a great force or urge for unity dominating each group or species.  For instance:  In the mineral kingdom; the atoms of a lump of iron are held together by a force that unites them.  In the vegetable kingdom the same force is manifest in the grouping of the various kinds of vegetation-the grasses assembling so thickly upon the meadow that it has the appearance of a carpet, and the trees of like kind making a grove or forest.  In the animal kingdom it is the same-the flocks of birds and herds of cattle manifest this force or urge.  So also on the human plane.  Everywhere we behold this uniting force:  "Like seeks like and has affinity with its own kind."
On the human plane this force manifests in all degrees and we speak of some of them familiarly as:  Fellowship, the family, the tribe, the city, the state, the nation, and the empire-such as the Egyptian, the Assyrian, the Medo-Persian, the Grecian, and the Roman.
This uniting force or urge is natural to all the kingdoms mentioned and the combinations produced by it on the human plane are, therefore, natural.
But this force is not the mysterious force of civilization.  Rather we are to consider a force above the natural.  It is often termed mysterious because not generally recognized and understood.
In brief:  Natural civilizations are racial, political, philosophical, commercial, etc.
Furthermore, when we examine carefully the individuals constituting a
page 117
group or species in any of the kingdoms, we find no two alike.  Among all the grains of sand no two alike, no two blades of grass alike, no two shrubs or trees alike, no two animals alike, and no two human beings alike.
Observe also the varying degrees in addition to the diversity in every kingdom.  In the mineral kingdom, from the dull grain of sand to the sparkling diamond; in the vegetable kingdom, from the lowly blade of grass to the tall cedar; in the animal kingdom, from the weakest creeping thing to the strong lion, and in the human kingdom we find all the degrees from the humble peasant to the powerful king, wise philosopher, or diplomatic statesman.
There is another plane, a higher kingdom, to which the Bahá'ís direct particular attention.  It is the super-natural3 plane or divine Kingdom.  This plane becomes manifest through a supernatural type of men who make known or reveal in their lives and words this higher Kingdom.  History recognizes them as prophets.  Manifestations of God is the Bahá'ís term for the highest of such men.  Their force or power, they say, is of the Holy Spirit and they come to lead mankind from a material outlook upon life unto a spiritual outlook.  They come as guides, as teachers to lift men up from the natural to the supernatural, from the human to the divine.  Such men were Moses, Jesus Christ, Muhammad, and Bahá'u'lláh.
History shows that they manifested an attractive force-a power which drew men and women to them while in the body and after leaving it, which was above racial, political, philosophical and commercial interests.
Consider:  Moses, a humble man, meek, after years of exile in the wilderness of Canaan, returning to Egypt, leading and teaching the slaves of the Egyptians in such a manner, with such force that within a few centuries they became the dominant spiritual civilization of the world and the philosophers of Greece and Rome went to sit at the feet of the Hebrew sages to learn from them.
Christ:  His influence we are all familiar with.  Consider how he changed civilization after his advent; for through his teachings he united Romans, Greeks, Chaldeans, Assyrians and finally Europeans and Americans, revealing more than any previous Manifestation the power of the Holy Spirit-the mysterious force of civilization.
Muhammad, six hundred years after Christ, astounded the world with this wondrous force.  Consider a people who were surrounded by the civilizations of Egypt and Palestine, and near to Greece and Rome-wild tribes roving the plain of Arabia untouched by these civilizations-changed in a few hundred years to become the wonder of history; even the Christians of Europe sending their sons and daughters to Muslim universities in Spain to be educated by those who but a few generations before were the wild tribesmen of the desert!
This is indeed the mysterious force of civilization.
But even these supernatural or divine civilizations arose and fell as well as the natural or racial and political civilizations of old.  The Jews fell away from the teachings of Moses into such a condition that at the time of the appearance of Christ they were ruled by Rome, and soon after were scattered over the world.  Islám has today degenerated from what it was, and the Christian world is witnessing the fall of its civilization through the great war and the attending horrors in Europe.
Students of the sacred Books recognize that up to the time of the fall of Jerusalem it was the "Jewish age" and from the scattering of the Jews
page 118
until recently, it was a period known as the "times of the Gentiles".  And now the Gentile age has ended.
It would seem then that the civilizations founded by such great Manifestations on the supernatural or divine plane experience birth and death.  But they foresaw, as well as the prophets and disciples who carried on their teachings, that a time would come when the spiritual Kingdom they had helped to prepare mankind for would become manifest in its fullness.  They foresaw a time when the spiritual Kingdom set up would not fall.
Isaiah gave word pictures of that promised age.  Daniel said, "In the days of these kings, the God of heaven shall set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed" and "it would stand forever".  Jesus holds forth this same promise in his teachings and in the Lord's prayer-wherein his disciples and followers pray for the coming of the Father and His Kingdom on earth, that the Father's will should be done on earth, and that His Kingdom should have the power and the glory forever.
In reality, the civilizations of Moses, Christ and Muhammad did not die, but were rather the different phases of preparation for the final accomplishment by "Him whose right it is", for these great Manifestations of the Will and Word of God in this phenomenal world, were bound together by a Covenant.  Each spoke of the other.  Moses spoke of Christ, not mentioning the name, but telling of his coming; Christ spoke of Muhammad, not mentioning the name, but telling of his coming.  And all spoke of the coming of the Great One who should appear in the latter time, "King of Kings and Lord of Lords".  This Covenant is the bond between this Great One and those who prepared the way for His coming.  This is the mysterious force that binds the religionists of the former Manifestations to the Great Manifestation today, Bahá'u'lláh.
That Covenant has been fulfilled and its door of bounty opened to all on earth through the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh, the Glory of God.  As Isaiah said, "the Glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together"-that is, universally.
This is the Day of the Lord.  This is the day when the Kingdom of heaven has been established on earth.  Its power is here.  Its mysterious force is creating a new civilization, a divine civilization that shall not be overthrown and it shall stand forever.  That mysterious force has drawn us here from all parts of the continent to be present at this meeting, and that same force is uniting the hearts of men everywhere.  This force is reconstructing civilization.
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of Bahá'u'lláh, was in America in 1912, he foresaw the particular phases necessary for the spiritual reconstruction of this western world.  Most of us are familiar with the principles he laid down, expounded, elaborated, made clear to the minds of the peoples of the West.  Other speakers will undoubtedly elaborate them here in this Congress before it closes.  I will just outline them:
Bahá'u'lláh taught the oneness of the religions of the world, the oneness of all humanity, the universal brotherhood of man, universal peace; the perfect harmony of religion and science.  He enjoined men to search diligently for truth and to abolish all prejudices, religious, national, racial, and social.  He proclaimed the equality of the sexes, commanded equal educational advantages for both, besides vast equitable social readjustments, the equalization of the means of livelihood and the complete establishment of justice among men.  He proclaimed the urgency of a universal language to bring men into closer fellowship and mutual understanding.  He emphasized the incumbency of a Parliament of Man-a universal tribunal of justice or arbitration for the adjustment of international affairs.  And, unequivocally, he taught the
page 119
power of the Holy Spirit in the life of humanity.
In brief:  The Holy Spirit revealed by the Manifestation of God, Bahá'u'lláh, is the mysterious force of civilization in this new age.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has revealed a prayer vibrant with this force:
"Bring them together again, O Lord, by the power of Thy Covenant and gather their, dispersion by the might of Thy promise, and unite their hearts by the dominion of Thy love; and make them love each other so that they may sacrifice their spirits, expend their money, and sacrifice themselves for the love of one another.  O Lord, cause to descend upon them quietness and tranquillity.  Shower upon them the clouds of Thy mercy in great abundance and make them to characterize themselves with the characteristics of the spiritual.  O Lord, make us firm in Thy noble command and bestow upon us Thy gifts through Thy bounty, grace and munificence.  Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful and the Benevolent!"
Today, on earth-according to the Will of Bahá'u'lláh-'Abdu'l-Bahá is establishing the new civilization through this mysterious force.
Alláh-u-Abhá!


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 119
The Universal House of Worship for the New Age
Address by Mrs Corinne True of Chicago, at the Third Session of the Bahá'í Congress, held at New York City, Sunday evening, 27 April 1919.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is one of the greatest proofs of the working of the mysterious force of civilization discussed by Mr Windust.  It is the first outward symbol, the first divine institution, under the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, to be erected in the West.  I will read you Bahá'u'lláh 's own Words about the construction of this house of worship.  In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh says:
"O people of the world!  Build ye houses of worship throughout the lands in the name of Him Who is the Lord of all religions.  Make them as perfect as is possible in the world of being, and adorn them with that which befitteth them, not with images and effigies.  Then, with radiance and joy, celebrate therein the praise of your Lord, the Most Compassionate.  Verily, by His remembrance the eye is cheered and the heart is filled with light."4
In Chicago we had a peace meeting not a great while ago.  Mr Taft came and held a conference regarding the League of Nations; the different religious denominations met and worked together as hard as they could, and on the last afternoon of that conference, someone arose and suggested that the League of Nations was a Christian institution.  A Jewish rabbi, who had worked equally as hard as the Christian, insisted that it could not be limited to a Christian institution.
And so today in all walks you will find the same thing, because we are in a new day.  You cannot put wine into old bottles when it is new wine.  It will ferment.  It will burst your old bottles.  You must put your new wine into new bottles.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says "The gift of God to this enlightened age is the knowledge of the oneness of mankind and of the fundamental oneness of religion."5
page 120
It is the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár that is the great outward symbol to humanity of this oneness of the world of humanity.  'Abdu'l-Bahá sent us word and he has written in his own handwriting that in Ishqábád, the believers of God made the erection of the temple conducive to affinity and unity, so that it really became the cause of the oneness of the world.  He also makes the erection of the temple in America conducive to the unity and oneness of the believers, of the maid-servants and servants of the Merciful, so that in one thought, one aim, they engage themselves in the building of the temple.
The work of this mysterious force of civilization brought to us by the Manifestation of this age is to establish upon the earth a divine civilization.  We have been living under a material civilization, but the day has come when the divine civilization must be established-the spiritual brotherhood of man.  The reason we have wars and strife is because the people are not serving one aim, one purpose.  Each one has his own thought, his own self-interest-each person, each nation-and this leads to separation and division.  We will always have wars until some great power comes into the world and inspires and fills us with one great aim and one great purpose and we sacrifice our lesser aims to this great, this enormous aim; so that we forget our individual interests and the interest of all becomes our interest.
The great Mashriqu'l-Adhkár stands for that sacrifice of self, that sacrifice of the personal, so that we may come into this knowledge of the oneness of humanity.  We must find out that we are a part of this one great body of humanity and the working for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will bring humanity into this knowledge.  'Abdu'l-Bahá sent Tablets to the orient as well as to the occident, and encouraged the believers all over the world to arise and take part in the contributions for this tremendous work.  He said that every soul in the orient, whether he was rich or poor, should give something.  We received letters telling how they would go out and sell a little article of clothing, perhaps a tin pan from the kitchen, because they had not the ready money to send us.  One of the most touching contributions we have had for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár came during this last year from India.  The different assemblies of India collected a contribution for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and sent it in a lump sum in September and a letter from one of the prominent believers in India itemizes what each assembly had sent.  In 1910, when Mr Remey and Mr Howard Struven made their wonderful trip around the world and visited India, we had a most interesting letter published about the jungle dwellers of India, how perfectly wonderful was their hospitality.  That letter was printed in the little Bahai News, the beginning of the Star of the West.  It would really do you good to read that letter and see the fire and spirit that was among those jungle dwellers when they received Mr Remey and Mr Struven.  When Miss Martha Root was in India, she was to have visited that assembly but could not do it, and one of the believers, I think, made three hundred buttons with the face of Miss Root on it, and sent them up to the jungle dwellers in order that they might all have a visit from Miss Root.  Well, those jungle dwellers have sent a contribution to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, and the same spirit came with that contribution of the jungle dwellers that comes from the men and women from the centres of civilization and cultivation, from Paris, or London or New York, or any other part of the world; the one spirit, the one fire, of the love of God, emanates from the letters which bring these contributions to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
When such a dynamic force as that is working in the world, surely great changes are imminent.  It cannot help but make great changes.  From all the
page 121
various religions of the world these contributions come.  From all the various continents.  One year I was very much embarrassed because in giving my report I had to say that all of the continents had contributed to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár except South America, and just before I left for San Francisco that year, South America arose with a contribution, the wife of the owner of a large coffee plantation in Brazil, sending a contribution to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, so that with the greatest joy I could say at that convention that all of the continents had contributed to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
I want to give you the Bahá'í definition of the house of worship or church; so that you may see why we call this the Universal House of Worship.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has so beautifully defined these things.  There was a believer who wrote to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, because she was a member of the church, and this is what 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote to her:
"Thou hast questioned how thou canst accept this divine Cause, for thou art a member of the church.  In the day of the Manifestation of Christ, many souls became portionless and deprived because they were members of the Holy of Holies in Jerusalem.  According to that membership, they became veiled from that brilliant Beauty.  Therefore, turn thou thy face to the Church of God which consists in divine instructions and merciful exhortations.  For what similarity is there between the church of stone and cement and the celestial Holy of Holies!
"Endeavour that thou mayest enter in this Church of God."6
'Abdu'l-Bahá gave a marvellous talk in the Church of the Ascension here in New York, giving a definition of the church, of what the Bahá'ís mean by the church.  He says "... the church is a place where people of different thoughts and divergent tendencies-where all races and nations-may come together in a covenant of permanent fellowship.  In the temple of the Lord, in the house of God, man must be submissive to God.  He must enter into a covenant with his Lord in order that he shall obey the divine commands and become unified with his fellowman.  He must not consider divergence of races nor difference of nationalities; he must not view variation in denomination and creed, nor should he take into account the differing degrees of thoughts; nay, rather, he should look upon all as mankind and realize that all must become united and agreed.  He must recognize all as one family, one race, one native land; he must see all as the servants of one God, dwelling beneath the shelter of His mercy."7
When we really and truly arise and fulfil the building of such a church as that we will not relegate certain nationalities to the Chinese section, other nationalities to the Ghetto section; we Will not separate our brothers and sisters into these divisions; we will recognize the oneness of all humanity.  And so this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is the universal house of worship because it is the only house of worship in the world except the one at Ishqábád, Russia, that does really carry out these teachings.
Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and its accessories, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to Mr and Mrs Holbach, of London, England:
"When these institutions-college, hospital, hospice, and establishments for the incurables, university for the study of higher sciences and giving post-graduate courses, and other philanthropic buildings-are built, its doors will be open to all the nations and all religions.  There will be drawn absolutely no line of demarcation.  Its charities will be dispensed irrespective of colour and race.  Its gates will be flung wide to mankind; prejudice toward none, love for all.  The central building will be devoted to the purpose of prayer and worship.  Thus for the first time religion will become harmonized with science and science will be the handmaid of religion, both showering their material
page 122
and spiritual gifts on all humanity.  In this way the people will be lifted out of the quagmires of slothfulness and bigotry."8
I must tell you of one of the last contributions which we have had.  We owe everything to Persia.  It is the birthplace of the Báb.  It is the birthplace of Bahá'u'lláh.  It is the birthplace of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and there is an emanation from Persia that you do not get from any other place.  A traveller came through Chicago the other day bringing a contribution from the believers in Tihrán, Persia, to me, and he told his sister of the dreadful conditions that they had been suffering under in Persia.  He said he had paid $400 for a small sack of sugar.  In certain parts the people were becoming cannibals, they were so hungry-it was reducing them to that-and yet, with all the suffering and denial, those friends sent a good contribution for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  There was pure, unadulterated sacrifice.
When we can follow the example of Persia, it will not take us very long to build the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár; because America is not suffering from the same things that Persia is.  May this great example from Persia inspire our hearts so that very quickly-to make the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá happy-we may complete the sum he has requested us to raise in order that we may actually start the building of this Universal House of Worship, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
Alláh-u-Abhá!


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 122
Unveiling of the Divine Plan for the Central States9
Third talk by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb delivered at the Eleventh Annual Mashriqu'l-Adhkár Convention and Bahá'í Congress, held in McAlpin Hotel, New York City, Sunday evening, 27 April 1919.
...
page 126
Having revealed the above wonderful Tablet for the Central States,10 the Centre of the Covenant spoke often about the future work of the friends of God, and I have gathered his scattered words into one heavenly rosary.
He said:  "In reality the geographical position of the Central States has great importance, for just as I dictated to you now, it is like the heart of America.  Passengers going east or west, north or south pass through that section.  Similarly, it is a point of connection for the friends of God.  The believers in Chicago must be so enkindled with the fire of the love of God and must be so characterized with the characteristics of unity and agreement, that other states may learn from them this all-important lesson; that their pure lives and holy words, their selfless services and deeds may affect the hearts of all the outsiders.
"Just as the earth attracts everything to the centre of gravity and every object thrown upward into space will come down; so also material ideas and worldly thoughts attract man to the centre of self.  Anger, passion, ignorance, prejudice, greed, envy, covetousness, jealousy and suspicion prevent man from ascending to the Realms of Holiness, imprisoning him in the claws of self and the jail of egotism.  The physical man, unassisted by divine power, trying to escape from one of these invisible enemies, will fall unconsciously into the hands of another.  No sooner does he attempt to soar upward than the density of the love of self, like the power of gravity, draws him to the earth.  But the only power that is capable of delivering man from this captivity, is the power
page 127
of the breaths of the Holy Spirit.
"The believers in the Central States must, through this all-conquering power, free the inhabitants from the claws of self, negligence, lust and imagination.  The attraction of the power of the Holy Spirit is so effective that it keeps men ever on the path of upward ascension.  The malevolent forces of no enemy will touch those sanctified souls who have made this universal power their guide.  With tranquil heart and assured spirit they are flying upward day and night and are journeying through the illimitable space of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.
"The believers in America must be like lighthouses, lightships and searchlights, so that in the tempestuous sea of the world the arks of lives may reach the haven of security.  Each individual Bahá'í must be a life-saver who, facing the rough waves of the sea, may plunge into the whirlpool and save the souls from drowning.  To sit, to talk, to listen-there is no virtue in that.  To rise, to act, to help-that is a Bahá'í life.
"The sincerity and earnestness of the friends in the Central States must appear through deeds.  Deeds are the standards!  I have done all that is necessary.  I have drawn for them the Plan of God which must guide them through all the coming years.  I have explained to them the principles of Bahá'u'lláh.  Now the promotion of those principles depends upon their co-operation with each other and their turning their faces to the Kingdom of Abhá.  Without walking, a traveller will not reach his destination.  Without working, a poor man will not obtain wealth.  Without diving to the bottom of the sea, a diver will not gather pearls and corals, and without going through the lower classes, a student will not be able to take up the higher courses in sciences and literature.
"The believers of God, in reality, display much effort; but this effort must be expended in the right direction.  A sagacious thinker will always perceive the end before he takes up a certain kind of work.  A youth desiring to prepare himself for a medical career must study those courses which are directly or indirectly connected with his profession, so that he may become efficient and skilful.  Consequently, the friends of God must themselves become the fountain heads of divine characteristics and attributes, and then call others to this exalted station.  They must first be attracted and enkindled, then try to attract and enkindle others.  Let them cleanse their own hearts like unto clear mirrors, then strive in the purification of the hearts of mankind.
"In brief, I hope that the friends in the Central States may become assisted in rendering these great services.  May they become centres of merciful susceptibilities and spiritual guides to the Kingdom of Abhá!  From every standpoint, ways and means for the teaching of the Cause of God must be prepared.  The question of teaching, like any other question, is evolutionary and not revolutionary.  This matter must become very plain to everyone, so that all the friends, like so many spirits in one temple, may arise in the accomplishment of this great service.
"When the foundation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is laid in America, and that divine edifice is completed, a most wonderful and thrilling motion will appear in the world of existence.  The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will become the centre around which all these universal Bahá'í activities will be clustered.  From that point of light, the spirit of teaching, spreading the Cause of God and promoting the teachings of God will permeate to all parts of the world.  I hope that ere long the foundation of this celestial temple will be laid-thus it may become conducive to the happiness of the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  All the inhabitants of the world are in these days engaged in warfare and strife, but the friends of God are striving with heart and soul to lay the basis of this palace of the Kingdom;
page 138
so that the call of prayers and supplications may ascend to the heights of heaven.  The flowers of material and divine civilization shall grow in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, perfuming the nostrils with the fragrance of truth.  Its doors will be open before the faces of all races, nations and religions.  Whosoever enters therein is welcomed.  Bahá'u'lláh is the universal Shepherd.  All mankind are His sheep, and the adherents of all religions are welcomed in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár to worship the Father of all humanity with perfect freedom and reverence and obedience.
"Likewise, great importance must be given to the development of the Star of the West.  The circle of its discussion must be widened; in its columns must be published the essential problems pertaining to the Bahá'í life in all its phases.  Its contents must be so universal that even the strangers may subscribe to it.  Articles must be published, dealing with the universal principles of the Cause, the writers proving that this Cause takes a vital interest in all the social and religious movements of the age and is conducive to the progress of the world and its inhabitants.  In short, the Star of the West must promote the aspirations and the ideals that will gather little by little around these general Tablets, bringing into the light of day all the historical, religious and racial knowledge which will be of the utmost value to the Bahá'í teachers all over the world.
"In a similar manner, the scope of the Bahá'í Publishing Society must be greatly enlarged, so that books and pamphlets may be translated into different languages and published.  These short pamphlets and historical reviews, giving the proofs and arguments of the Cause, must be written in accordance with the intellectual and spiritual capacity of each people.
"In short, for the diffusion of the fragrances of God the friends must think of detailed ways and means and year by year add to their efficiency, practicality and thoroughness.  They must organize classes for teaching the young and preparing teachers to go to all parts of America.  God willing, the believers like unto bright candles will illumine the assemblage of the world of humanity with the light of truth."


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 136
Recent Tablet revealed for Bahá'ís of the British Isles
Through his honour Mr Tudor-Pole, Egypt-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-To the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, British Isles.-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD
O ye sons and daughters of the Kingdom!
Your joint letter was received.  Its contents made us exceedingly glad, for it indicated that, praise be to God, during those days of trial these blessed souls have withstood every test in the utmost steadfastness and perseverance.  Like unto pure and unadulterated gold they shone with infinite brilliancy in the flaming fire of tests.  Verily, this is the bounty of divine Providence.  For the gift of guidance is great, it illumines the soul, converts the court of the heart into a rose-garden and gladdens the spirit with the good-tidings of God.
But all this is dependent upon firmness and steadfastness throughout all trials.  Not until the tree is rooted and firmly planted can it give forth fruit; no matter how fresh and graceful it may appear, eventually it will wither, fade away, and only be fit for the fire.
At present, praise be to God, these sons and daughters of the Kingdom have, like unto blessed trees, strengthened their roots, are unaffected by the blowing of violent winds, and they are like
page 137
unto a building resting on a solid foundation.
This world-war has come to an end.  We trust that at least it will lead to the preliminaries of universal peace, just as it is plainly foretold in the blessed Tablets.
The greatest means for its realization is in the entreaty and supplication of the friends to the Kingdom of God.  Ye should all implore and pray, supplicate and beseech that, through the grace of God, this world-consuming war may be changed into a world-illuminating peace.  It is certain that the entreaty and supplication of these servants will be acceptable at the divine threshold, for we wish nought save the tranquillity of the world of existence; purpose nothing but unity among men and aim at nothing save the eradication of ignorant prejudices, so that all religions and races, embracing one another, may gather under the shade of the pavilion of the oneness of God.
O ye sons and daughters of the Kingdom!  The most pressing need today is harmony and union among the friends of God.  Strive your utmost for this.  Not until this intimate unity is realized can universal harmony be established.  Therein lies the reason of Christ's saying:  "Ye are the salt of the earth; but if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted."  Exert ye a great deal of effort on this momentous question.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 28 January 1919.  House of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 137
Recent Tablet to Lutfu'lláh Hakím
His honour Mírzá Lutfu'lláh Hakím, London-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
The letter which thou hadst written on 16 December 1918, was received.
Praise be to God, it was an evidence of the comfort and the spirituality of the friends of God and therefore infinite joy and satisfaction ensued.
Concerning the gathering on the 30 November at the house of the maidservant of God, Roseh, at which ye composed and prepared a letter; as the contents of the letter are known and noted, its despatch at present is unnecessary.  Postpone the time of its forwarding.
Praise ye God, that He hath assisted ye in calling a meeting in the utmost of union and love, in endeavouring to promote rest and comfort for the world of mankind, in doing away with dispute and wrangling and in converting misunderstanding among religions to full understanding and good will; so that all races and nations may affiliate in the utmost love.
Convey, on my behalf, the utmost regard and respect to Sitárih Khánum and her daughters, Parvin and Núrí, and present my utmost respect and greeting to the respected maid-servant of God, Mrs Cropper, and similarly to the maid-servant of God, Roseh, who indeed continually and uninterruptedly is engaged in service to the world of mankind; and to Mrs Stannard, who is the true maid-servant of the Kingdom and who is restless day and night.
Mr George Latimer, of America, who is in active service, is an illumined, God-like youth.  When released from military service he is permitted to present himself.
Convey, on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, infinite longing to Dr Esslemont.  Through translating the Hidden Words into Esperanto, a copy of which he has sent, he has in reality served the Kingdom of God and has likewise rendered a distinguished service to the Esperanto language.  May God confirm him!
Send Professor Browne's book.  Neither object to nor correspond with this person.  Leave him to himself.
page 138
His honour, the beloved Daniel (Jenkyn) addresses you from the hidden Kingdom as follows:  "O ye friends of God!  Be not grieved because of my separation, for I am abiding in a realm wherein all my wishes are realized!"
When Dr Esslemont has finished his book, send a copy thereof.
I have felt deeply sad at the passing away of Professor Cheyne at Oxford.  Send a copy of his book, which is (partly) on the Cause.
Praise be to God, in these regions, due to the establishment of an equitable government, security and comfort have been realized for everybody, and all denominations are safe and protected from all calamities and are engaged in providing the means of their welfare and prosperity.
The hope is entertained that, through the blessings of Providence, the standard of universal peace may be raised and the pavilion of the oneness of the world of humanity may be pitched upon the apex of the contingent world; that the different races may be fused into one, and the surface of the globe may become one native land; so that the divine Kingdom may be fully represented and gloriously shine in the nether world.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 19 January 1919.  House of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 142
The first Tablet received in Egypt after the opening of the doors of communication
HE IS GOD!
To the believers of Egypt
O true friends!  Separation from the friends causes the burning of heart and soul.  Separation, distance and foreignness are the cause of injury and loss, especially as no fragrant messages, nor a faithful messenger, nor courier, nor post, nor information, nor news from any source have been received, and the mind has been deprived of comfort.  Life and spirit were in the utmost sadness and grief until the conquering army arrived in the Holy Land and seized the reins of government from the cruel ones, and overthrew the authority of the tyrants, and quietness and safety were assured.  The leaders of the country and the army showed sympathy and kindness, soothing every oppressed one; the black cloud was dispersed and the horizon of the political situation cleared.  Believers and unbelievers were at rest, and acquaintances and strangers were playing cheerful melodies.  Verily, the darkness of injury and error was uncovered by the light of equity and justice, and the government put on the garment of probity.
Praise be to God!  By the bounty and favour of the Blessed Perfection, amid such great confusion and severe whirlwind of calamities and severe oppression, these distressed ones were in safety and rest.  No distress came upon any one.  There was no trouble or suffering nor pain, until the Ark of the Cause of God reached the shore of rescue from the whirlpool of danger.  Now the ruling government was overcome and all the people of the country of every nationality and tribe were made comfortable on the couch of rest and safety.
'His honour Mr (Colonel) Storrs came from Egypt and gave tidings of the health and safety of all the believers.  I became very happy and grateful that, praise be to God, the friends in Egypt were also preserved and guarded.
Night and day we are remembering you and sincerely praying for you and the hope that we may meet.  With heart and soul I am longing for all the friends.
Upon them be the Glory of God!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr S. I. Moody and Mírzá Faraju'lláh Khán, Tihrán, Persia, February 1919.


X:7, 13 July 1919
page 143
Tablets recently revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Alfred E. Lunt
To his honour, Mr Alfred E. Lunt, Boston, Mass.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou firm in the Covenant!
Your last letter dated 28 October 1918, was received.  Its contents caused joy and gladness for they indicated the firmness and steadfastness of the friends in the Cause of God.
Praise be to God, the gloomy clouds of war have been partly dissipated from the horizon of the world.  The hope is entertained that gradually they will utterly vanish and rest and comfort will be established.  Grasp therefore the present opportunity, for a wonderful capacity for the hearing of divine teachings has been manifested among men.  Concentrate, therefore, at present your whole effort in spreading the Message.  It is time for the diffusion of fragrances and the promulgation of divine teachings and for nothing more.  The world of humanity is athirst and these divine teachings are pure and limpid water.  Exert effort in teaching and if blessed souls undertake to travel through all the states of America, complete and thorough confirmations from the Kingdom of Abhá shall be witnessed by them, so much so that they shall be bewildered.  Verily, this is an exceedingly momentous question.
You had inquired about the despatched and unsigned letter.  That letter is authentic and its original copy is safely kept and signed.  Whenever an unsigned letter arrives, inquire before putting it into action and wait until an answer is given.
Convey respectful greeting to all the friends.  The question of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is of great importance.  The friends accordingly must exert a great deal of effort and must be self-sacrificing so that its construction may begin.
As to appeal and encouragement for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, in view of the glory and eminence of the Cause, it must be made orally or through private personal letters.
Your children who indeed are mine, embrace each of them and show them on my behalf utmost kindness and amiability.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 10 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Edna True
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Edna True, Paris, France-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou respected one!
Your letter dated 2 February 1919 has been received, and thy service to the world of humanity, during these days of terrible war, acceptable at the Kingdom of God.  Verily, thou hast magnificently engaged in service; hast given up thy rest and comfort in America and hast hastened to Europe so that thou mayest be of service to the world of humanity.
Praise thou God for having been therein assisted.  At present continue these services until the end in the same department and whenever it has been made possible for thee to undertake a trip to the Holy Land in the utmost joy and fragrance, thou art permitted to present thyself.
Convey in writing to thy respected mother greeting on my behalf.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 30 March 1919.  House of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
page 144
Ella and Ellah A. Rice-Wray
To the maid-servants of God, Ella and Ellah A. Rice-Wray, Detroit, Michigan-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two dear maid-servants of God!
Your letter dated 4 December 1918, was received.  Praise be to God, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh-May my life be a sacrifice to his friends-hath expounded and fully explained everything in the manifest Book, hath not given any soul the chance to be confounded, hath designated the Expounder of the Book that he may fully explain and expose the manifest teachings of God; and hath devolved the ordinances which are not literally recorded in the Book, upon the Universal House of Justice which, whenever it is organized, will engage in the service of promulgating those ordinances which are not manifestly mentioned.
Indeed, as thou hast written, the trials are severe.  I, however, entertain the hope that as the winds of tests wax more severe, the friends of God will exhibit and assert more firmness and steadfastness; that souls will be assisted through the confirmation of the Abhá Kingdom and will conquer and quench the uproar of self and worldly desire which is nothing but the world of nature to which man is enslaved and from which he can be emancipated only through the power of God.
Concerning the effect of translation, it is evident that it is not as effective as the original.  For instance, the Tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh which have been translated from Persian or Arabic, the original text exerts a wonderful power, while translation may produce certain effect but cannot be measured with the original.  The delicacy, smoothness and sweetness of the Words of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh are beyond any human conception.  It is, however, conditioned upon one's knowledge of Persian and Arabic.
Convey greetings to all the friends.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 26 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
C. Mason Remey
To his honour Mr Remey, care of his honour Mr Roy Wilhelm, New York City-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O my dear son!
Numerous letters have been received from you and their contents have all been conducive to happiness.  Praise be to God, thou art confirmed in service to the Kingdom art promulgating divine teachings, art raising the call of the oneness of mankind, art detaching the souls from ignorant racial prejudices, art summoning them to the investigation of truth, art showing forth unto them the light of guidance and art offering them the chalice of the wine of the love of God.  This blessed purpose of thine is the magnet of the confirmations of the Abhá Kingdom.
Rest thou assured and engage with Mr John Bassett in service to the Kingdom of God throughout the same southern states.  This is what is required at present.  Later on, undertake a tour to the north of America and after that thy course of action and that of Mr John Bassett shall be determined.
Convey, on my behalf, the utmost love and kindness to Miss Margaret Klebbs and say:  "The people of the Supreme admire your work that, praise be to God, you are firm in the Covenant and Testament, and are serving the Kingdom of God."
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 23 May 1919, Haifa, Palestine.


X:8, 1 August 1919
page 147
What is truth?
Stanwood Cobb
"What is truth?"  So asked a Roman governor and jurist at a time when the moral and spiritual horizon of the world was undergoing a tremendous expansion; when the old values were changing, and the new had not yet been established; when a great Manifestation of God was upon earth, and men knew it not.  Yes, and it was to this very Manifestation that the stern Roman governor addressed himself.  Christ had already said, "I am the way, the truth, and the life."  Pilate had the earnestness to inquire, but not the capacity to receive, the truth.
"What is the truth?"  This question is asked today as eagerly as in the days of Imperial Rome.  Again there is a vital shifting of values; a running to and fro; a falling away from the old and an earnest search for the new.  What must one believe?  Where pin one's faith?
Is truth to be found in the old denominationalism?  If so, it is a very divided truth, a truth in rebellion against itself; and that cannot be, for truth is harmonious, catholic, whole.  Is it to be found in any one of the existing world religions to the exclusion of all others?  So once thought the adherents of each great world religion.  But truth as the exclusive possession of one race, of one religion, is as illogical as that truth should be confined to one sect.
Is truth then relative?  God forbid.  It is neither fractional, nor formless.  Truth is one for the whole world; one and indivisible, for the whole universe.
In 1867 Bahá'u'lláh, in Adrianople, on his way to years of exile and imprisonment in the Holy Land, declared himself to be "The Promised One"; and of his inspired words he says, "This is that which descended from the Source of Majesty, through the tongue of power and strength upon the prophets of the past.  We have taken its essences and clothed them with the garment of brevity as a favour to the beloved, that they may fulfil the Covenant of God."
What is the truth which Bahá'u'lláh taught?  That God exists.  That He can be known only through His Manifestations.  That He has manifested Himself to the world at different epochs and in different lands.  That He is again manifesting Himself to the world, to fulfil His promise; and to satisfy the expectation of every religion and every race for a great Leader, who should lead mankind into the Promised Land; who should initiate the movement which should not end until all had become children of the Kingdom; who should lay down the principles of a spiritualized humanity, exemplifying them in his own character and life.
What are those principles which Bahá'u'lláh laid down for the guidance of humanity?  But first let us ask ourselves what, if one had the opportunity and the choice to create an ideal religion answering to all the needs of humanity,-what, we question, would be its nature?
page 148
Such a religion must in the first place be universal.  It must unite all races in one sublime Truth.
Secondly, it must wipe out war, the greatest handicap under which humanity now labours.
Thirdly, it must solve the vast problem of labour and capital, a problem which lies at the very roots of human progress and of joy upon earth.  For it must guide the habits and regulate the lives of men in such a way as to enable all to exist in happiness, health, and nearness to God.
Last, and most important, and as a means to all the foregoing, it must fill the hearts of men with love for God and love for humanity, so their faces shine and the whole being is radiant of joy.
And all these things the true seeker will find in the Bahá'í Movement.  It not only preaches universal brotherhood and universal religion, but it demonstrates these things in practice.  It is the only religious movement which has united, in the thousands, Jews, Protestants of every denomination, Catholics, Muslims, Buddhists, Brahmins, Zoroastrians and Confucianists.  It is the only movement which amalgamates men of every race and caste and joins the orient and occident in loving partnership of progress.  No other movement has ever done this,-even Christianity has never spread east of its birthplace; it became and has remained an occidental religion.
As to war, the Bahá'í Movement condemns it as a crime against man and God.  Only one kind of war it permits, a war of justice, a war against war-but the aim even of such a war is universal peace-peace based not upon politics and selfish interests, but upon tolerance, internationalism, justice-and a humanitarianism that is not confined to nationality.  Only the power of a great religion can perform this task of welding together the hearts and lives of men of every race.  Christianity once did it; Buddhism and Islám have done it; and the Bahá'í Movement once and for all will do it in a lasting and world-wide way.
The Bahá'í Movement is not an otherworldly, an ascetic, or an esoteric religion.  Its teachings are for all, and apply to this life as well as to the next.  Its aim is to make this life happy, just and perfect-to establish on earth the Kingdom of heaven.  It does not say to the poor man, "Submit to your poverty and degradation, for greater will be your glory in heaven."  It says:  "Poverty is a social crime.  It must not exist.  Every man has the right to secure work and by it the sufficient means to meet his daily needs.  There cannot continue to exist the vast extremes of wealth and poverty."
To the capitalist it does not say, "The Church accepts your support and condones your ill-gotten wealth," but it says:  "Share your profits with your workmen.  Divide up your estates at death so that the many and not the few shall enjoy them."  And the Bahá'í laws will enforce, where capitalism will hesitate, the greater sharing of its profits with labour, a wider distribution of wealth by bequest, and the abolition of poverty.
Thus and thus only can material conditions upon earth make possible a spiritualized humanity.  For while all strive madly after wealth and but a few attain it, the hearts of men are too bitter to listen to the voice of God.  But the combined results of confiscatory taxation beyond a certain income, and of spiritual love and humanitarianism on the part of the rich, will turn our great achievers from greedful competition unto deeds of more human value.  And the satisfaction of the daily needs and the feeling of justice in the distribution of wealth will change the jealous attitude of labour into one of co-operation and happy industry.  For every producer, in the Bahá'í state, will receive not only wages, but a share in his profits.
The Bahá'í Movement is the only re-
page 149
ligion that has ever made work equivalent to prayer.  It is not necessary to flee from the world in order to be near to God; nor need one retire from the work-bench in order to pray.  For by Bahá'u'lláh's command, work done in the spirit of service is equivalent to prayer.  Service done in love is the key to the Kingdom.  Of this there is potent witness in the personality of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Servant of God, who has made his life a perpetual and joyous sacrifice,-first to Bahá'u'lláh, his father, and then to the whole world.  He is the personification of service; and his words and actions are the inspiration which spur on others to give their time and strength and money to the Cause of humanity and of God.
No one must be idle.  In the Bahá'í state there will be neither tramp nor monied loafer-beggar nor remittance man.  All will contribute some service to the state-else they sin in the eyes of God.  But work will then be far more joyous than it is now-because it will be done in the spirit of love, done under divine inspiration-and the task-like quality of work will yield to a happy creativeness such as now characterizes only the artist's productions.
"Thou shalt earn thy living by the sweat of thy brow"-is supplanted by "God cares for all his creatures".
Liberty of government-equality before the law-has been achieved by the advanced members of the human race; but nowhere is there real equality of opportunity.  Poverty is a handicap too great for all but the most powerful wills to overcome; while property and privilege raise to eminence men worthy only of the workshop or the prison bench.
Education,-free, thorough, practical,-is the key to equal opportunity.  By this means are the talented brought forward, the great achievers of the human race discovered and aided in their work.  Not equality of position, but equality of opportunity, is the standard of the Bahá'í state.  Let the great enjoy a position and a wealth commensurate with their abilities and service.  But let all have an equal chance to achieve.
So Bahá'u'lláh lays great stress on education.  To give one's children the best education possible is a spiritual duty-and daughters must receive an equal education with the sons, because they are to be the mothers of the coming generation.  These commands for universal education, less needed in the occident, are absolutely essential to oriental progress; for the great weight which keeps the orient down is the ignorance of its masses.
The Bahá'í Movement brings a message of inspiration and freedom to women.  They are in all things potentially the equals of men-and their training and education is to be as broad and far-reaching as that given to their brother-men.  Humanity cannot fly on one wing only.  Woman's power must be added to man's power, woman's vision and ideals to man's vision and ideals for the achievement of a perfect humanity.  The vanity and domination of the masculine element must yield to a greater harmony of sex, in which sympathy, understanding, and co-operation will enable man and woman to march abreast toward the victory of spirit.
In the Bahá'í Movement, the antagonism between science and religion is abolished.  There can be no quarrel between the truth of science and the truth of religion, because truth is one.  If there is an apparent divergence, it is due to partial error.  For religion to deny the truths of science is folly.  By so doing it becomes mere superstition.  Religion must comport with science, Bahá'u'lláh declared.
But there is a limitation in the science of today which must be overcome before it is worthy of sharing truth with religion.
For science to deny God, is for it to deny the very ground work and substance of existence.  Such a science is no-science.  There can be no harmony
page 150
between contemporaneous religion and contemporaneous science, for both are dogmatic.  The religion of today is mentally wrapped in the swaddling clothes of an infant humanity, while science, in bursting free from this oppression, is lost in an anarchy of materialism.  When scientists live as close to God as the prophets of the past, a new and spiritual civilization will pervade the earth.
In the Bahá'í Movement, it will be no man's duty to preach unto his neighbours.  All will have the Word of God at their disposal-its meaning to be sought in their own hearts and from the heart of God.  There will be no paid profession of the spiritual teacher.  This function will be absorbed by the educator, the scholar, and the scientific investigator.
In the Bahá'í teachings we find a platform so wide, so universal, that it meets every need of man:  one that appeals to both the intellectual and to the emotional; to the humanitarian and to the mystic; to the oriental and to the occidental.
These teachings are for all humanity, nor is there in them fault either of omission or commission.  Herein lies the outline of a perfect world-religion; the pattern to which humanity may weave its future destiny; the foundation stone for the building of the Temple.
Yet were the Bahá'í Movement a mere platform it would soon pass, as have passed all other platforms made by man.  It is not because of its platform that it is spreading over all the world, but because of its inner spirit, its cohesive force.  It is a religion, not an ethical or philosophic cult.  It moves men to great and lofty deeds; purifies their hearts; leads them to God.  It is the Water of Life, bringing rejuvenation to a thirsty age.  To one man it may appeal first through the intellect, to another through the heart; but in time it unifies these two sides of man into a perfect harmony of spirit.  The oriental, mystically inclined, it makes more practical.  The occidental, inclined toward materialism, it wakens to the existence of spirit.  And upon all it enjoins deeds.
This is not a religion of words, of lip service, of inherited tradition.  It is a religion of action, appealing to the virile, the pioneer, the heroic in man.  It points the way to a new and glorious civilization, the keynote of which is social love.  And not only does it point the way, but it gives also the impetus, the motive, and the power toward this better life.  For many have the eyes to see, the heart to yearn, but few the power to achieve.  And the friends of God must be distinguished, not by fine words merely and ideals, but by spiritual achievement.  When the Bahá'ís in any community stand out perceptibly as the sweetest, the noblest and the most powerful personalities of them all, then will the Bahá'í Movement win its adherents by the thousands and the Bahá'í State come to realization.
Much as it may so be thought, man is not, however, made for living, but life for man.  Not a perfect world is the goal of humanity, but a perfected soul.  This world is but the battle ground, upon which victory is to be attained of spirit over sense.  Hence, of far more importance, in any religion, than the means of a happy civilization, are the means of an individual salvation.  "What shall I do to be saved?"-is the eternal quest.
Salvation is a term in obloquy11 among trained minds.  Modern cultured man has deemed himself the peer of existence, needless of salvation, beyond good and evil.  If this attitude brings happiness, let the years 1914-1918 bear witness.
If salvation means anything, it means the ushering of the soul into immortal joy; it means the freeing of the soul from sorrow.  There is only one way of freedom.  It is the way of love.  In that predestined union of the soul with God, happiness is found.  In separation, only sorrow-no matter how the soul
page 151
may seek to shield itself against misfortune.  "Grieve not save when thou art far from us; and rejoice not save when thou art near and returning unto us."
To overcome self is the task set for humanity; the earth-task, in which beads of blood oft-times perspire.  The task is great, and many shrink therefrom.  Yet, sooner or later, it must be faced by all.  There is no escape.  For the finite life can never become infinite, nor can mortal put on immortality, until this task is done.  Severance from self, this is salvation.
To achieve this goal, but one means is given to man-that of love.  That which as duty is difficult, with love becomes a thing of joy.  The Friend awaits eternally the first pledging of friendship.  He never wearies of the quest-forsakes no seeker, answers love with love.  But those who love Him not can never know His love, how infinite, how joy-giving it is.  His heart of infinity yearns after all finite beings, draws them as a magnet.  But freedom of will gives opportunity for resistance.  Man may, but will not, seek this goal; for self-love is a force compelling on the soul of man a long and weary journey, a pilgrimage through sorrow till the peaks of gold are reached.
When will humanity overcome this terrible egoism, this vast conceit in its own powers?  When learn that there is no safety save in God; no guidance but the Friend's; no deliverance from evil except by aid of the Holy Spirit?  If nothing but universal disaster, and the resulting conviction of human frailty, could avail to turn men to Him who is Mighty, would it not be a favour on the part of destiny to send affliction over all the earth?
And so woes shall increase, that evil may decrease; complacency shall fail in order that yearning may be aroused; happiness shall wane, that spirituality may grow.  But in all trials, in all difficulties, love is the clue, the guidance.  In love is deliverance from all evil.
Love in its highest aspect means union, harmony, evanescence before God.  But man is too proud to seek this road.  He will not submit his heart,-but by foolish imaginings seeks salvation in empty abstractions, in a hollow eclecticism, in a vain endeavour to reach the Divine Essence without accepting the guidance and infinite love of the Divine Friend.  It may not be.  Those who would enter by any other way are thieves and they shall be rejected.  One gate, one way, one path; not many to salvation.
Such are the teachings of the Bahá'í Movement.  They are not new-they have existed in the world before, in essence, but not in full expression.  This, their new and epochal arrangement, is the destined avenue of Truth to the world today.  The power of God is behind it, the power of holy spirits in the celestial Kingdom, the power of all good.  And nothing can stay its progress, because it is harmonious, catholic, and whole.


X:9, 20 August 1919
page 179
The power of the influence of Bahá'u'lláh
Address by Dr Frederick W. D'evelyn of San Francisco, delivered at the Fourth Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Monday afternoon, 28 April 1919.
...
Today, we are told, the world of humanity is inadvertent.12  We realize it is at variance.  Today no nation, no people are confident and at ease, because confidence and security have passed away from the world of humanity.  Presidents, kings, labour, capital, subjects-are all in danger.  The need of a collective centre, where these differences may be annulled and the oneness of unity be established, is as urgent as it is evident.  In the world of divinity, quality and identity are inseparable.  No duality; absolute oneness.  The power and influence of Bahá'u'lláh are divine entities, inseparable, the perfection of unity.  The perfection of unity vocalized, materialized, is the Bahá'í Message, and the Bahá'í Message is the need of the world today.  When you hear this acclaim for the first time it would be very human, it would be pardonable, if a certain measure of unbidden resentment arose within you, born into being by the very assurance of the statement and by the alleged comprehensiveness of the claim.  That claim is specific rather than elaborate; it is centripetal rather than diffuse.  It at one and the same time breaks down barriers, for to it they are non-existent, and overcomes difficulties; because in the onward progress of its triumph they are non-retarding.  In its appeal to humanity it concedes a universality that makes all the world kin.  If we were asked to classify, to align the Bahá'í Message with some
page 180
of the great historical pronouncements of the world, we should speak of it as the Declaration of Independence.
Today in the school houses, in the halls of council, in the chambers of congress, rarely indeed are the echoes of the utterances of the great father of our country silent.  Today if you pick up a dozen of the leading newspapers, the possibility is that ten of them would be again repeating his wonderful warnings against "entangling alliances".  Thus contrasted, thus aligned, the Bahá'í Message becomes an ordinance of the most supreme inner significance, for its pronouncement is "Take ye heed, beware ye of entangling limitations."
Think, think of a God's message so curtailed, so foreshortened, that any of His entities fall outside of its boundaries unreached, unsurrounded, unincluded.  Such a message would not be comforting, would not be assuring.  It would not be God-like.  It would not be glorious, and it could not be Bahá'í.
A few days ago I read in one of the London newspapers an article on literature, written by a special writer, in which he said, amongst other things, "The most read of the recent books is the Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics, a work of twelve volumes, ten already published."  A holy father just returned from Rome, was present at the interview, and he added:  "Yes, and there is no book today more frequently consulted in the Vatican than the one you have just mentioned."  If I were permitted to write into that, "the greatest recent book", a definition of the Bahá'í Message, I think I would write, "The Most Great Consummation of all God's relationship, plans and purposes bestowed upon humanity since that day when in the beginning the Word was God."  Thus is it the Alpha and the Omega.
A few moments ago we spoke about the world being at variance.  It might seem a disconnected sequel to claim these are victorious days, these are triumphant days.  This is the cycle of deeds,-not of words, and deeds proclaim the station of the doer.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "Yes, these are great days, the time of the end has come, the doors of the Kingdom are open, the Supreme Concourse is descending to assist all."  Yes, these are great days, for back to memory, back to recognition, back to acceptance, is coming the fact that man is not merely the output of a system, nor the by-product of a community, but is a God-created, a God-claimed entity.  The Bahá'í teachings say, the honour and the glory of man consists in the fact that amongst the beings he is the dawning place of righteousness, and adds Yes, and with divine assistance, the peace, welfare and prosperity of the world of humanity are in his hands.  The Bahá'í Message does not tell us that all men are equal, but it tells us that the crown of humanity rests upon all alike.  This Message, the incarnate power and influence of Bahá'u'lláh, affirms that the birthmark, the reality of man is the Throne of Divinity.  The Manifestation of today is not an accident; is not a coincidence; is not merely history;-it is the voice and the will of God, the meaning and the entity of God.  Ethically it is the spiritual complement to the material development of mankind today.  I say it with the conviction of every fibre of my being, that it is a normal thing, that it is a logical thing, that it is a fair-play thing, and with all the awe and the veneration that my soul is capable of, I say God could not, God would not, God dare not, deny to that thing which He says is "the dawning place of righteousness", nay, would not deny to him the opportunity of ascending to a spiritual height complementary and co-equal with his permitted material development.  The power and the influence of Bahá'u'lláh will make this mundane sphere of ours the great arena in which this chosen thing of God, this thing man,-all other teachings, all other dogmas, all other predictions or
page 181
doubts to the contrary,-in station become the dawning place of righteousness, will attain to the victory over the city of the hearts, and will confirm and conform to the created innateness of his birthmark, his inseparable possession of "reality".  The clear judgement must consider the obligation for the fulfilment of these promises.  Mankind of necessity must reach the loftiest destination, the exalted grade, the supreme station-chosen for him by his Creator "in whose grasp is the kingdom of destiny and the power of execution".  This is the cycle of that confirmation, the uncompromising consummation of the oneness of the world of humanity.
Look at these times and seasons.  Years are no longer of equal measure.  A day may mean more than a year and a flash more than a day.  It is not exaggerated to say that anything can take place in the spiritual life of man today.  Consider for a moment the important values attached to material speed and nearness, the physical values of speed and nearness today.  Our God is marching on,-and, the question is where is humanity, ahead, abreast or in the rear?  That is the most vital question for whom?  For you, as an individual; for you as individuals coalesced into the masses.  Our God is marching on.  Where is humanity?  That supreme guidance which our teachers are looking for, our guides seeking after, our congressmen yearning for, that Supreme guidance which in their limitation they term "statesmanship".  Statesmanship, the greatest good for the greatest number.  What is statesmanship in its essence, in its final analysis?  What is it?  Is it not merely the harmonizing of the spiritual movement of the age?  If that movement, that spirit, is unknown, is uninterpreted, unreceived, where can be the statesmanship, where can be the efficiency, where can be the standardization?  Our God is marching on, while mankind is standing afar off, aloof, because our guides have not interpreted the spiritual movement of this age.  The power and the influence of Bahá'u'lláh, the Bahá'í Message, in its potency, in its universality, in its domination, is the ally of the God that is marching on, the God that is doing great things.  Yes, the Bahá'í Message, the power and the influence of Bahá'u'lláh, the manifestation of today, is just this, it is God's ways, God's means, whereby humanity can come abreast with a God that is marching on, with a God who is fulfilling His promises, with a God who is completing His purposes.  Therefore, we ask you, acquaint yourself with its teachings.  Investigate its principles, exchange your ignorance for its knowledge, your weakness for its strength, your invalidism for its potency, your blindness for its illumination.  You see that beautiful invention (pointing to a light filter installed upon the platform)-an unique thing, a helpful thing, but its sun, its rays, will not put the gold on the wheat, the red on the cherry, or the blush on the peach.  It is a mere twilight,-twilight even as the twilight of orthodoxy, the reflection of a sun that is not.  The power and the influence of Bahá'u'lláh is the full orbed sun of today that gives to the seasons their quickening and to mankind his fruitage.  There is no power, no power, save the power and influence of Bahá'u'lláh concreted into the Bahá'í Message, the will and the Word of God; there is no power today save that power that can bring together beneath the same tree the hearts and the minds of the world of humanity.  It is the motive power in all things; it is the mover of souls; it is the governor and the controller of the world of humanity.  Be ye illumined with the light of today, do not put light filters over your soul and be shaded by the nether gloom of yesterday.
The power and influence of Bahá'u'lláh is the zenith sun of today, the consummation of all God's relationships, from way back when the Word was in the beginning, when the Word was God,
page 182
until this hour, the time of the end.  The glory and the honour of man consists in the fact that amongst the beings he is the dawning place of righteousness.  The power and the influence of Bahá'u'lláh has come to the world in this most great cycle, asking you to come back and claim your birthright, the birthright God gave you, the birthright man cannot take from you.  Come back!  Be illumined with the light of today and turn your sight into yourself and see that claimant standing within you, glorious, mighty and supreme!
The power and the influence of Bahá'u'lláh, the Bahá'í Message, are just God's ways and God's means whereby humanity today can come abreast with a God who is marching on.  "Blessed are those who attain."
Alláh-u-Abhá!


X:9, 20 August 1919
page 182
To live the life
Address by Mary Hanford Ford, at the Fourth Session of the Bahá'í Congress, at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Monday afternoon, 28 April 1919.
... Dr D'Evelyn has been telling us of the supreme message which has been given to us, of its grandeur, of its magnificence, of its supremacy, and it seems as if ever since 'Abdu'l-Bahá had begun to talk to us, he has been trying to tell us how we can catch up with that message, what we can do to lift ourselves out of personalities and into entity, out of animalism and into spirituality, out of that self-indulgence which is the curse of the natural man and into that superb effort which is the acme and attainment of the spiritual man.
... You know, we are living in such an astounding day of tumult and endeavour, a day when all the old world is so absolutely falling to pieces that sometimes we are in despair, sometimes we say how can any great edifice ever lift its head out of this rain and catch the light of the sun once more?  Now and again the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá come to us across the ocean and across the continent and give us hope because they always practically point out a direct pathway which we must follow to attain this end.  It is a pathway always along certain lines and always, on the other hand, inclusive of that great realm that is described by that little word conduct, the one word that we are most prone to forget in our march towards spiritual attainment and supremacy.  And so I want to read these words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, which have been recently received by a friend in New York.
He says:  "No doubt had the world of women wielded sufficient prestige, the conflagration of this war would not have set the world aflame.  If the mass of women in Europe and of those in America had been enfranchised throughout all the state undoubtedly they would not agree to war.  At present this war has made millions of children fatherless and millions of fathers and mothers destitute of sons; this war has snatched
page 183
from pitiable sisters their brethren, this war has turned millions of women into widows and destitute of husbands, this war has made cities desolate, this war has made the very foundations of mankind quake and quiver.  If in future, women, like unto men; are given the franchise, assuredly they shall prevent the occurrence of war; whereas, otherwise the matter will be difficult.  Man is sanguinary and even worse than devouring beasts.  Of what use is exhortation and to what amounts admonition?  A mighty power is necessary in order to make an effective opposition, otherwise it will be exceedingly difficult.  I pray God that the world of women may be assisted and confirmed for their purpose is universal peace."
You know how it is yourself in this new era in which we are living; how difficult we find our situation everywhere.  For instance, here is the man of the old order who nevertheless has been endowed with new ideas and he has to have a little struggle with himself when instead of handing out to his wife the customary quarter for bread and tea, he is obliged to say, "My dear, my bank account is open to you", and then accept with humility the number of checks which pour in for cashing, as a result of the new and inexperienced liberty which this woman is enjoying.  And on the other hand, you know, it seems a little queer to the new woman who has submitted always and whose grandmothers have submitted always, to begin suddenly to realize what it means to not only boss the household but boss the head of the household as well (laughter)-frequently realizing that unless she bosses the head of the household the household will go to ... [ruin].  And you know what Bahá'u'lláh says to us about the world of the past, about the world of the present; that it is a world of animalism, a world of cruelty, a world of self-indulgence, and that he says also this world of the past has been governed by force.  That day has ended.  The world of the future is to be governed by love.  The world of the future is to be ruled by the spirit, not by the arm of law, even in the old sense, but by that new and wonderful knowledge of our nearness to that heavenly source of light which alone can give us wisdom and alone can carry us to the acme of our success and attainment in this world.
Look at it, this question of man and woman, from the point of view of the ideal which 'Abdu'l-Bahá offers to us.
Man is the objective side of existence.  Man is the objective actor in existence.  He is the individual who does things outwardly.  And what is woman?  Woman is the subjective element in existence.  While man is the fighting one, woman is the praying one.  While man wields all the material forces of existence into the forms which he chooses, woman waits and listens for the pattern to be given through which those forces and into which those forces may be moulded.  Always in the past the world has been dominated only by the objective side of its existent power.  Is it any wonder we have had wars?  Is it any wonder we have had disharmony after disharmony and injustice after injustice, and that again and again, in the eras of our history, we have had to confess that we have completely forgotten God?
And now suddenly what does 'Abdu'l-Bahá say to us:  That henceforth women are to be equal in franchise with the men, that women are to be equal in power with the men, that women are to sit in our council halls and women are to be recognized as our counsellors.  Why? They are the element of love.  They are the element of creation, they are the medium through which God speaks to the world.  And do you not stop in reverence and fold your hands in prayer as you gaze forward and
page 186
realize what that world may become when the objective side of existence has put its hands firmly into that of the subjective side of existence and both reverently and lovingly are looking to that divine Source from which alone our wisdom can arrive to us?  That is what 'Abdu'l-Bahá means when he says that women will prevent war.  It is that woman knowing in the soul of her infinite patience, what is the divine ideal to which mankind may attain, waits patiently for its consummation and is never willing to hurry it by the crudity and the coarseness of force, and so in that world which is stretching before us through all its tumult, through all its anguish, through all its anger, there is coming this new presence of patience, this new presence of love which will wait, this new presence of kindliness which will not criticize, and that is to make itself present in the world through this franchise which is given everywhere to womankind, through this council which is granted to womankind, through this freedom and this equality of comradeship which henceforth will guard and guide not only the fortunes of the world collectively, but, thank heaven, the individual fortunes of the individual man and woman who are united to consummate the life of this world.  I know you have thought of the meaning of that wonderful little word, conduct, and how it applies to your life, how it applies to mine, of how it is the silver thread marking the path along which we finally reach the little haven of rest and of comfort whence we can look back and survey the anguish of the path which we have pursued because it is through conduct that we attain intuition, it is through conduct that we obtain self control, it is through conduct that we are enabled at last to stand off and look at ourselves and realize what beastly things we have been, in the past which is so near us, because we may theorize and we may prophesy all that we can, and we may read holy books and we may commit them to memory, we may have every text at our tongue's end, and if we have not stopped to say, "What did I do yesterday?  How did I hurt my friend?  How did I forget that wonderful law which 'Abdu'l-Bahá has given us as the Golden Rule of this day and the coming day?"-"Be not a cause of grief to anyone "-it is all in vain.
Be not a cause of grief to anyone.  There is so much grief in this world.  There is so much anguish that we cannot escape.  There is so much sorrow that we cannot avoid that presently, after we have begun to realize it, and after our own heart perhaps has been burned to ashes, there is a spark left which says to us, "At least you can do this thing, you can live in your corner of the world so that no one in that corner of the world suffers from your act or word.  You can do that."  And what would become of us if all the world would do that?  What would become of the universe if every one were doing that?  Living in his corner of the world so that no other suffer through him; so that no other had a moment of grief or an added anguish because he stood there in that place?
page 187
I think often as I look forward to the future and the day when I lay my head down for its final sleep in this work and I hope its lovely awakening in the next world; I may be able to look back and say at least, in the last days of my life I remembered that I was careful not to grieve those who were next to me.  I was careful to spread love as fully and as freely as possible in my passage of life.  And you know that is concerned in this word conduct.  That is concerned in this word service, in the word that is constantly on the lips of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and which he is not willing to use just as service, but which he turn, again and again into that more powerful word of servitude, which some of us come to know very well.  Indeed, in these days of our existence that word servitude which imprisons us until the fleshly desire has fallen away from us; the desire for domination, the desire for supremacy, the desire to be the chief one in any place, is our salvation.  And presently, when our servitude has been long and has been harsh and has been very severe, until our limbs are torn with the chains that bind us, what has happened to us?  Why, a strange freedom has come, in which light blazes about us and fragrance is in our nostrils and a heavenly voice sounds through our ears, saying, "My beloved servant, thou hast done well."  When you hear that voice, you know what happens to us, because it has happened to you many times.  You know that you say to yourself, "Let the servitude be doubled, let it even never end, so that I may hear again those wonderful and lovely words that concern not my life here alone but all the everlasting life that stretches forever beyond us and is so different from this one, that when we have once had the tiniest glimpse of it everything in this life must necessarily fall into complete insignificance."
There is a beautiful story that 'Abdu'l-Bahá tells us in his book The Secret of Divine Civilization.  It is a wonderful story and an eloquent story, a universal story, as are all the stories which 'Abdu'l-Bahá tells us, and he tells of how a king in Arabia was like many kings, given to satisfaction of his impulses and his appetites, and one day, satisfying his appetite, he fell desperately drunk, so not knowing what he did, suddenly commanded the execution of two men that he loved best in the world, and, because his word was law, his command was obeyed immediately, and the heads of his faithful servants were stricken off.  In the morning when he realized how faithfully the commands of his obdurate and unobstructed will had been fulfilled, in that morning his soul could not contain the anguish that possessed him at his own wretched conduct, and so, out of ignorance and out of his stupidity, he issued another decree even worse than the first one.  He said, "I will build me two houses and on the anniversary of the death of these two men whom I have slain I will sit between these two houses and whoever comes to me on one side shall be slain in memory of those whom I slew ignorantly, and whoever comes to me on the other side shall be granted the desire of his heart."  So it happened, that the king in travelling about the world had a most lovely and beautiful experience, because that is the grace of heaven to us, you know, that in the height of our foolishness, and of our self-indulgence, the refreshing draughts of divine ichor13 fall into our parched lips, and we know we are not forgotten of heaven.  So he came hunting alone and forlorn, and having lost his companions, he arrived at the house of a poor shaykh of the desert, who had little in his place to eat, but who received the king with the hospitality which was his habit, and seating him at his table he said to his wife, "See the little kid that we have, although it is the last one, kill it and prepare it and bring it to our guest, everything that we have."  So they put it all before him on the simple
page 188
table, and the king ate there with greater joy, with greater gladness, than he had ever known.  Wishing to reward that kindness, as he left, he said to his host, "Come to me any time you are in trouble and I will grant you any wish that you make to me.  I am at your command; my realm is at your service."  So he went back to his home, but remembered that table, that hour; he could not forget it.  Then by sad fate, there were a couple of years when the harvest failed, when poverty doubled, poverty struck this son of the desert, who was in reality a son of God, and his wife said to him, "What shall we do, we have nothing to eat," and he replied, "I will now go to the king, I will ask for the fulfilment of his promise and he will save us."
So, getting on the back of his horse, he flew across the desert, seeking the king, seeking salvation, and came upon the wrong side of the pathway just on the day when the king sat there to reward or to kill.  The king, knowing nothing but his own obdurate material, animal, physical will, said to him, "Why have you come on this pathway and on this day.  You whom I wished to reward with every blessing of my realm, and now I can only give you death?"  Hanzalah, kneeling before him in dismay, said, "Only grant me one privilege, then, that I may have a year to arrange my affairs, and I will come back to you a year from today and suffer the penalty that is imposed upon me?"  The king said, "I cannot grant you this without a surety; you know that well.  I have you now in my hands, and how do I know what will happen if you get out of my hands?"  He was accustomed to physical laws.  He was accustomed to animal passion.  He knew nothing about a spiritual law which over-rides all that.  So the man, looking about among the courtiers, asked one and was refused, and then at last appealed to another so powerfully that his soul was quickened, and he said, "I will be surety for him on his return."  So the shaykh rode away, not endowed with great earthly possession, but to prepare for the death which was to be his a year from that time.  When that day came, they watched for him and watched for him and he did not come.  The king, knowing only the material law of satisfaction and demand, having never heard of anything else, said:  "We must slay his substitute, nothing will save him," but nevertheless waited until sunset was near, and then as the man was brought forth for execution, suddenly a warrior was descried, a horseman, on the horizon, and they waited, and he came nearer and nearer, and finally flung himself at the feet of the king, and the king, lost in astonishment, said to him:  "But why are you such a fool, why have you come back to death when you had escaped, when you knew very well that justice would be satisfied by the sacrifice of your substitute."  Then, lifting his head, Hanzalah said to the king, "But I could never have rested with such a conclusion as that.  Does not honour hold a man, and is a physical life so precious that one would sacrifice his love of God and his love of his kind for the sake of such a miserable thing as the saving of physical existence?  Why I would gladly give my life, I have arranged my affairs and I have no fear of death, it is sweet to me."  The king looked at him with amazement.  "You are not pale, you are not trembling, you are facing the executioner, and you are not afraid, how is this?  What upholds you?"  And he said, "I am the follower of my Lord, I have learned from him the secret of life, the joy of existence; long ago I heard the words of the Lord Christ, and they gave me eternal life.  How could I fear when you give me the entrance into that eternal life?  Is not this something to rejoice over?"
You know how it is with you in this world.  You have gone on in your physi-
page 189
cal existence, you have satisfied all your desires, you have sat upon your throne, and you have slain your enemies, then suddenly the word of the Spirit falls into your heart, such a thing as you never experienced before, the word of the Spirit, the power of the Spirit, scales fall from your eyes, at last you know that you are not a physical being, that the loss of your physical life is nothing to you-instantly you stand before yourself, glorious, enfranchised, alive, living eternally, looking back with the eyes of wisdom at the paltry things for which you would have sacrificed that eternity.
And it was so with the king.  "Oh," he said, "why did I not know this before?  Why did I slay my friends first, and how, later, could I have built these houses and slain so many others?  Oh," he cried, "tear them down quickly, and you, beloved one, you sit beside me and tell me all the secrets of this truth which has given you such power, which has given you such wisdom, which has brought you such happiness, which has taught you what nothing else can teach, what life actually is."  That was what happened to the king.  And Hanzalah sat sweetly beside him in his humility and talked to him; gave him noble writings; the houses were both torn down and the wicked paths were all made clear.  Henceforth the king was known as the blessing and the father of all his people.
Do you think that story belongs to the past?  Do you think it lies only in the fourth or fifth century in which its scene is laid, and in Arabia?  It is for each one of us, because each one of us has to tear down his houses which he has built with the wrong feeling and each one of us has to take into his heart that wonderful knowledge, that message of the spirit which fills us with joy and makes us indifferent to all the voices of ambition and privilege.  It brings to us the meaning of that other lovely thing that 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said to us.  You know we can never complete the repetition of all these wonderful words that he has said to us pointing the way of the future.  He says this little word.  "The divine nearness is unlimited both in this world and the next."  The divine nearness is so many things, the divine nearness is the inspiring idea falling upon us from heaven, carrying with it its ideal, surrounding us so that we forget ourselves and those who are near to us, and know only the presence of that ideal and the power of that idea which consumes us until we have carried it out completely.  The divine nearness is that consciousness of the word of the Spirit which sears us sometimes like a flame, and fills us sometimes like a fragrance, cutting us off again from all the meanness of the ambitions of this world and carrying us on into the mysteries of life that stretch into the other world and bring us a consciousness of God that we have never had before, a realization of His nearness, a knowledge of what the Holy Spirit is and what is the work of the Holy Spirit, so that presently we begin to see it is all that we want.
If I can have the divine nearness, if I can have the Holy Spirit, what do I care as to the texture of my gown, the height of the walls that cover me, my station, or the quality of the food that I eat?  Because this divine nearness, this which must pervade the world, this which I begin to know, this which I can do my part in sharing with every one, this is the greatest blessing of existence and this is the foundation of the new world that is to be built out of the ashes of the past, and will construct everywhere again, and again those temples whose principles and gilded tops will catch the rays of the universal sun, so that they will be reflected upon all mankind and all mankind will know here on this earth what it is to live in heaven.


X:9, 20 August 1919
page 184
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Mrs Brooker
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Brooker, Akron, Ohio-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
The letter thou hadst written on 22 January 1919 was received.  Praise thou the Lord, that thou hast been ushered into the divine Kingdom as one of the chosen people of God and the light of guidance hath been reflected upon thy pure heart like unto a light which is ignited in a lamp and a candle which bestows light to a gathering; thou hast organized a meeting and hast been engaged in the promulgation of divine teachings.
Rest thou assured that divine confirmations shall reach (thee) and heavenly cohorts shall assure (thee) the victory and that thyself and thy respected husband shall attain unto everlasting life and shall serve the oneness of the world of humanity, and shall bring together other souls under the shade of the pavilion of the Kingdom.
At present engage in service and you will have permission to present yourself.
Convey longing greeting to Mr Russell Brooker and tell him:  "Praise the Lord, for He hath flung open to thy face the doors of Solomon's wisdom, and pray God that He may bestow upon thee an everlasting sovereignty, for Solomon's kingship was ephemeral, it passed away and did not remain forever, while the sovereignty of the love of God is perpetual and endless.  I hope that thou mayest sit on this throne and that is firmness and steadfastness in the love of God."
page 185
As to thy new business, the former trade _____ is the cause of thy comfort.  The new business will engage greatly your mind.  It is advisable for thee to engage in the previous trade and devote the rest of your time to spiritual matters.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 30 March 1919, house of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Dr Olive G. Couch
To her honour, Dr Olive G. Couch, New York City-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou attracted to the Kingdom of God!
Thy letter dated 31 January 1919 was received.  Although I am bodily far and remote, yet in spirit I associate and am intimate with you.  Do not be grieved.  Divine beatitude is thy possession and divine glad-tidings abide with thee.  This bliss and gladness is not followed by grief and this illumination leaves no room for darkness.
At present engage in service to the Kingdom of God.  Whenever the ways will be opened and the means will be fully provided by which thou mayest travel in perfect comfort and ease then thou hast permission to present thyself.
Convey my greeting to Mrs Beede.  It was a long time that the (holy) leaves were awaiting the receipt of her news, but so far no letter has been received from her.  But now that you have informed us of her news the whole family has been made grateful.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 30 March 1919, house of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Will Levington Comfort
To his honour Will Levington Comfort, through Shahnáz Waite-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou son of the Kingdom!
Praise be to God, that like unto a torch thou hast been ignited, and like unto a star thou hast shone.  This light is the light of reality, which is divine guidance, and not a material one.  It is a heavenly lamp and not an earthly one which, although it reveals objects, yet it does not discover and comprehend them, i.e., it is unaware of the world of things, and simply reveals them to the eye; while on the other hand, the light of Truth both reveals and discovers objects and does moreover comprehend them.
Praise be to God that thou hast attained to such a light.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 15 March 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


X:10, 8 September 1919
page 195
Declares Zionists must work with other races
Leader of Bahai-ism believes neutral government like British is best for Palestine at present-Says His Father advocated League half century ago.
Marion Weinstein
From the Globe and Commercial Advertiser, New York, 17 July 1919.
While the league of nations is hailed or attacked here as a Wilsonian project, out in Palestine is a religious leader who claims it first saw the light in the writings of his father, fifty years ago.  He is 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the son and successor of Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the modern cult, Bahai-ism.14
'Abdu'l-Bahá, or 'Abbás Effendi, as he is widely known in the Near East, counts hundreds of followers in America.  He made a tour here in 1912, preaching his doctrine of universal love in churches and halls from coast to coast.  Born in Persia in 1844, he went to 'Akká as a young man.  He was imprisoned by the Turks for his teachings, but was released in 1908, the year of the new Ottoman constitution.
Interested in World League
I met 'Abdu'l-Bahá lately in his home in Haifa.  He has many friends among the British, including General Ronald Storrs, military governor of Jerusalem, and it was a British officer who took me to him.  His influence is considerable in the Holy Land, but it is almost impossible to reduce it to actual numbers.  I went to him curious as to his views of the future of Palestine, but he seemed more eager to talk of a matter of world importance-the league of nations.
He spoke in Persian, a well trained secretary interpreting his low, soft words in good English.  Through the open windows of the large sunny salon of his modern house came the trill of songbirds in the Effendi's lovely garden.  In white galabieh15 and turban, he fitted into the summery scene, his voice falling on the silence like a woodland echo.  An ancient, venerable patriarch he seemed, with his snowy beard, a kindly patriarch, but with little of the Biblical fire.
Tells of Father's Plan
"Fifty years ago," he began, "Bahá'u'lláh wrote that there must be a league of nations to establish universal peace.  He worked his idea out on practical lines, too.  He said every nation must choose representatives, approved by the senate, the cabinet and the ruler of the country.  They were to meet to found a universal peace congress to be forever a world court of arbitration.
"Bahá'u'lláh saw even then, half a
page 196
century ago, that unless universal peace is established, the world of humanity will continue in a state of barbarism.  For it is a world of struggle for existence, of sensualism, a world of nature.  Only when universal peace comes to stay will it become a world of spirit.
"I went to America myself on a mission of universal peace.  I proclaimed seven years ago that Europe was an arsenal that needed but a spark to turn it into a volcano.  The world leaders, I urged, must prevent this catastrophe.  But they did not heed me.  Now that they themselves are working for universal peace and we are soon to have a league of nations, there is no need for me to go to America again.
Message to His Followers
"Tell my followers," 'Abdu'l-Bahá continued, "that I am always asking heavenly help for them, and that my deepest desire is that they shall be the source of the enlightenment of humanity and the unity of all the races of mankind.  The point of distinction among men, let them remember, is their deeds, not their beliefs or words.  I charge my disciples, too, at this time to show love even toward their 'enemies'.  They have no 'enemies'.  The enemy of man is himself."
His religion, this leader explained, includes the highest principles of its forerunners, with this addition-it fuses them all in the pursuit of one goal, the unity of mankind in universal love.  Unlike its Muslim neighbour, it teaches the equality of man and woman.  "The world of humanity has two wings," is 'Abdu'l-Bahá's view, "man and woman.  If one wing is weak then the bird cannot fly."
He looks to the rebirth of religion as a result of the war.  The Bolshevist movement, he believes, will prove an admonition to the religious world and send mankind back to the fold, convinced that religion is the sole source of order and peace.  Bolshevism was inevitable, because religion was on the daily decline in Europe, particularly in Russia.
Has Hope for Palestine
For Palestine 'Abdu'l-Bahá has the brightest hopes.  "It will develop day by day now," he declared, "in industry, in commerce, in agriculture, under an enlightened government.  Up to the present the people of this country were like lost sheep.  Now they have found their shepherd.
"If the Zionists will mingle with the other races and live in unity with them, they will succeed.  If not, they will meet certain resistance.  For the present I think a neutral government like the British administration would be best.  A Jewish government might come later.
"There is too much talk today of what the Zionists are going to do here.  There is no need of it.  Let them come and do more and say less.
"The Zionists should make it clear that their principle is to elevate all the people here and to develop the country for all its inhabitants.  This land must be developed, according to the promises of the prophets Isaiah, Jeremiah and Zachariah.  If they come in such a spirit they will not fail.
Must Be Open to All
"They must not work to separate the Jews from the other Palestinians.  Schools should be open to all nationalities here, business companies, etc.  The Turks went down because they attempted to rule over foreign races.  The British are always in power because they keep fair and promote harmony.
"This is the path to universal peace here as elsewhere-unity.  We must prevent strife by all means.  For 6,000 years man has been at war.  It is time to try peace a little while.  If it fails, we can always go back to war."


X:10, 8 September 1919
page 197
Unveiling of the Divine Plan for the Western States
Fourth talk by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb at the Eleventh Annual Mashriqu'l-Adhkár Convention and Bahá'í Congress held in McAlpin Hotel, New York City, 26-30 April 1919.
...
page 200
...
When the original of the above Tablet16 was corrected the next morning by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, he handed it to me and slapped me hard on both my cheeks, laughing heartily, saying:  "It is very good.  It sticks.  This was thy wage for today in writing over that Tablet.  Now let us go and take a walk in the streets of 'Akká."  As he walked along the narrow lanes, he turned his face to me and said:
"Speak!"  The contents of the Western Tablet being fresh in my mind, I related to the Master how in 1848 gold was discovered in the stream gravels of California, and how when the news was spread, tens of thousands of persons in the Eastern States left farms, factories and homes in a mad rush for the gold fields, and how many thousands died on the way before reaching their goal.
The Beloved thought for awhile, and then said:  "Consider how men, in order to gain wealth and honour, threw themselves in the midst of all kinds of danger!  How cheerfully they accepted all these extraordinary hardships, left homes and factories and travelled thousands of miles through deserts and over mountains, in order to reach the gold mines!  But now in this day the mines of the Kingdom of Abhá are being discovered, and the precious jewels of the spirit are exposed.  These mines are inexhaustible.
page 201
The more they dig the greater will be the output of the ideal precious gems, silver, gold and diamonds.  The believers of the Western States must find their way from these earthly mines to the spiritual mines.  They must realize how their forefathers, in order to obtain gold, underwent the most incredible adversities, exposed their lives to danger and accepted all the difficulties with a firm resolution.  The friends also, in order to guide the souls, to promote the Word of God, to discover the unseen treasures of the Kingdom, and to prospect the invisible mines of the Realm of Might, must be willing to undergo any difficulty, so that they may achieve greater results and enrich the world with the boundless wealth of Truth.
"To the friends of the Western States, the self-sacrifice of the old pioneers and the patient gold-diggers must serve as a great example of perseverance.  The mines of the Kingdom of Abhá and their precious jewels are the praiseworthy attributes and characteristics.  These divine perfections are hidden from the sight of men.  The believers of God must by day and by night strive in their exposition;-so that their lustre and brilliancy may increase.  The material mines make man independent during his earthly life, but the mines of the Kingdom of Abhá will enrich him throughout all eternity, and deliver him from crudeness, ignorance and poverty.  The Western friends must become labourers in these great, spiritual mines, and fill the markets of the world with the gold and silver of the Kingdom of righteousness.  For every head they must make a heavenly crown of self-sacrifice; for every neck a necklace studded with the scintillating jewels of humility; for every ear an earring of truth and obedience; for every hand a bracelet of universal service, and for every finger a ring of sympathy;-so that the wonders and beauty of the world of the Kingdom may encircle the globe."
Another day I spoke to the Master, while he was coming out from the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh, about the system of irrigation in Southern California, and how the waste and barren deserts are turned into a paradise of flowers, fruit trees and sweet homes.  He quickly turned to me and said:  "When thou travelest in those parts, tell the people:  The Heavenly Irrigator appeared 70 years ago in Persia and taught His disciples how to flood the dry fields of the hearts.  Through His knowledge and inspiration they were enabled to transform the waste deserts of the minds and souls into the luxuriant gardens in which the rivers of light are flowing from the inaccessible mountains of God.
"Now, O ye friends of the Western States, just as your Government is spending extraordinary effort and money in the matter of irrigation, building dams on the tablelands to save the winter rain, so that the valleys, the plains and the orchards may be flooded during the summer season,-you must also exert yourselves in the irrigation of the hearts of men.  Learn ye perseverance from your universal teacher, Bahá'u'lláh, who was not disheartened by any obstacle from irrigating the hearts of humanity.  Kings and nations arose against Him and banished Him to distant lands and countries.  Nevertheless, whenever He entered a new place, fearlessly He occupied His time in the spiritual irrigation and the sowing of the seeds of knowledge and wisdom in the prepared fields of spirit.  Through His tender care the wildernesses were changed into rose gardens, the sad hearts were made happy, the sleepy ones were awakened, and the weak ones strengthened.  Irrigation!  This is the real and permanent irrigation of the Lord!  One drop from this water will allay the thirst of all mankind, suffering the fields of all hearts to become green and luxuriant throughout all eternity.  If the ground of the spirit is flooded with this pure water, it will not be followed by any drought; its
page 202
flowers will never fade and its freshness never pass away.  I hope that the Western friends may become the spiritual irrigators of the Kingdom, allay the thirst of the thirsty ones and let the waters of divine knowledge, the ideal of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, flood the world of humanity."
Many days later, while I was following him through his garden in Haifa, he again asked me to speak.  I talked about the wonderful natural scenes in the Western States.  I dwelt on the hot geysers of Yellowstone Park, the wonderful waterfalls of the Yosemite Valley and the strangely formed cliffs of the Grand Canyons of Colorado.  I spoke about the wooded valleys, the snow-capped mountains, the wonderful bursting springs, the shimmering lakes, the granite peaks, and the giant trees.  The Master always made a big capital about my love for America, and laughed at my enthusiasm in half-earnest, half-
page 203
joking manner.  Then he said:  "Why didst thou not tell me about these wonderful things when we were travelling in America?  Now that we are living so far away, thou comest to me with such fairy tales, praising America to such an extent as though God has not created another country in the world!"  Then he became serious, and said:  "All these majestic scenes of nature, in reality, prove the greatness of the Creator and the antiquity of the world.  This globe is indeed millions of years old, and its Creator has had no beginning and will have no ending.  He has been, is and will be the Alpha and Omega.  A creator presupposes creatures, just as light presupposes the existence of the sun.
"Now just as these wonderful scenes of the world of nature are witnessed in all the Western States, I hope the rare signs and traces of the Kingdom of Abhá may also become incarnated and personified; such souls may appear from these States who will be considered the wonders of the age and the geniuses of the time; from their services infinite results may become manifest in the world of existence; their words be penetrative, the trees of their lives fruitful, each one a flag of the victory of the Cause of God and a column of light to guide the wanderers to the religion of God.  Then the nether world will attract and in turn reflect the virtues of the world of the Kingdom.  Within the short space of our lives or the lives of generations, very little changes will come over these natural scenes and no practical results are witnessed from their mineral lives.  But the life and teachings of a single human wonder transforms the whole world.  Columbus was a genius in his time.  Consider what world-encircling results appeared from his voyage of discovery!  Copernicus, Kepler, Laplace and Newton were all geniuses, and their contributions to the sciences have made them benefactors of humanity?  The inventors and discoverers of telegraphy, telephony, electricity, wireless, etc., have all, through their distinguished labours and discoveries made man a monarch over the laws of nature, broadened his vision and freed him from the lower, miserable life of the savage, ever fighting with the beasts of the jungle in order to satisfy his bare wants.  This is, of course, in the material world.  But if we concentrate our attention on the spiritual world and the rich results issuing therefrom, we observe that through the teachings of Christ and the self-sacrifice of His disciples, Europe and America were adorned with the bright jewels of divine civilization, ferocious characters were refined and the love of humanity spread.
"In a similar manner in the Bahá'í Cause, there must appear extraordinary spiritual geniuses, wonders of the Kingdom of God, souls who in knowledge, sciences, sociability, tenderness, loving-kindness, universality, joyfulness, may be considered unique and peerless.  Should such heavenly beings appear in the Western States, the power and the creative energy of the Kingdom of Abhá will become manifest and apparent; souls who have discovered their ways to the mines of the Kingdom; souls who are the irrigators of the grounds of the hearts of humanity; souls who are the wonders of the realm of Truth.  Then and not until then will the spiritual creation of the Almighty become perfected in those States; the miracles of the transforming power of the Spirit embodied, the mysteries of the Holy Books be revealed and the golden age of peace and brotherhood be established."
We all know that the Western States are thinly settled; that the population of these eleven states is only about seven million, while that of the North-eastern and Southern States together is over fifty million.  Still, everyone realizes that the West is the seat of a mighty, virile civilization, that the possibilities of its development are unlimited under the wonderful promises of the Centre of the Covenant of God regarding the future of that country.


X:11, 27 September 1919
page 211
The oneness of the world of humanity
Address by Urbain Ledoux delivered at the Fifth Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Monday evening, 28 April 1919.
God has given me the power of speaking to many people.  It is rightly said that one may present to you the prelude of the organ, but the organ itself has been destined to chant the praise of One whose glory would extend to all parts of the universe, and that part of the universe that it took the longest to reach was the universe within.  And as 'Alí has so beautifully and so inspiringly said, "Why worriest thou when in thee is being unfolded the universe?"
I travelled far and wide-as a pioneer I came from New France (Canada)-to all parts of the world of men and the world of earth, seeking, seeking ever seeking, for the glory of God expressed in justice and in loving service.  In vain did I seek, for it was not to be found.  Justice had fled from earth and loving service was expressed in inaction.  And as a sunken trunk of a tree was I drifting upon the ocean of life, sinking, sinking and sinking continually into the condition manifest in certain periods of history-a dead primeval humanity.  Justice, loving service, so expressive of the oneness of the world of humanity, was not there shining forth. ...
Like a discoverer had I gone forth, possibly like Cartier, when he left St. Mahlo, to discover the new France.  Like a child had he gone forth in a new world, to discover a new humanity.  But the voyage was long, very long indeed, for what the child was seeking was the oneness of humanity within.  There were two personalities struggling with each other, the material and the spiritual.  And the material had as a motto, "Go there in the struggle of life, in the strenuous life of America; that nothing was impossible to him who willed."  With that he had gone forth in material conquest, and for a certain time was spoiled that note so beautifully brought by the love of a mother, whose human tender feelings were great and whose oneness of love centred upon an only boy for whom she had waited ten years.  Being absolutely material in his ambition he became part of that world of materiality that today is struggling against the true realities of life, and that we find manifested in these divisions of races, in these divisions of nations, and in these divisions of caste.
The oneness of the world of humanity can be found first of all in the conquest of the self within you!  Selfishness, pride, vain-glory, social distinction, intellectual superiority, material acquirement.  If you are able to sever yourself from these slaveries of pride, of selfishness, of greed, of vain-glory and of distinction of caste classifications, you will have the beginning of the assurance of oneness within yourself.  It is the first and greatest struggle.
page 212
Then, if you are able to realize that there are neither Brahmans nor Pariahs in the world, and that there cannot be the distinction of classes, there cannot be any class struggle because of the fact that you shall reach up to the station of the poor, then you shall attain to the oneness of the world of humanity.  But you can attain to that distinction only if you have conquered within yourself that other self which rebels against oneness; that other animated by pride, animated by selfishness and animated by greed, which divides this world today, not principally in that of an Asia, in that of a Europe, in that of an old or that of a new world; but divided into two great struggling classes of those who possess materiality and those who do not, those who possess spirituality and those who do not.  These are the two great classes today, yet our eyes are continually cast upon regions, divisions geographical, racial, of nations and colours, and so forth, notwithstanding the fact that the barrier is greater in that of possession than that of non-possession, of materiality than of spirituality.
If you have conquered your materiality, then you can go forth and serve Almighty God in a manifestation of oneness with those who need to share your bounty, or rather God's bounty-for what are we but the servants of God upon earth to deliver what God has given-and yet we keep, we keep, we keep, and we rarely give but to ourselves and to those we call dear to us.  As I speak to you tonight, how many homes in this city, how many homes in this state, how many homes in the world, are suffering while we in this great city are in the midst of luxury, where people are spending, spending thousands and thousands and millions of dollars in festivities of all kinds.  Tonight two thousand men are assembled in the Bowery Mission, and there is a tax of one cent to each ticket they shall receive and most of them have not got that penny to give; and we are the children of God here on the earth to deliver God's bounty; and yet thousands are here who suffer continually for the lack of the necessary things to enable them to exist.  Oneness calls for your sharing all that you have with them.  That is the first duty.  The first duty is to share with your brother.  Not simply to share what you have of money, not simply to share what you may have of garments, not simply to share what you may have of bread, but to share of yourself, of your companionship.
You say they have not got the education; they have not got the manners.  Oh, they have not got it, because you do not mix up with them!  You have not given them that, and God has given you talent, God has given you the possibility of elevating their life into a higher moral world, into a higher spiritual world, and you are here without putting into practice that spirit of oneness which brings the Pariah and the Brahman to each other.
This is the message of the Bahá'í Revelation.  It is the grand message of the Bahá'í Revelation that 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Bahá'u'lláh have both so beautifully practised in this world; they have shared their bounty not simply in principle but in person.  They have nothing but of themselves to give in person and they gave all of that.  They had only the period of life in themselves to give to humanity and they gave all of that, and the greatest message which was brought by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to England and to the United States was brought in the Missions of the poor, in action, the oneness of the world of humanity.  We see it is bringing together people of different colour, in bringing together the Chinese and the Americans, in bringing together the South and the North.  O my friends, it is in bringing together the child of the Ghetto and you, it is bringing together the Bowery man and you; it is to bring together the man who possesses and the other who possesses nothing.  That is the grand work before us, bro-
page 213
thers and sisters in the Bahá'í teaching.  It is!  It is!  It is here for you to do and you have not far to travel.  You have it in your midst.  You have it in your midst.  You have it in your midst!
And then that oneness of the world of humanity calls for you to be very tolerant of those who hold a different vision than you do as regards the economic and social questions that are agitating the world today.  Christ said, "Call no one fool."  Be careful of the expression that you may use whenever you designate any one that is struggling towards an equalization of the worldly and spiritual opportunities.  Do not simply try to dominate them through your superior intellectuality.  Rather go for a certain time and live the life with them.  Share their tribulations.  Share their sorrows.  Share their trials and bring some joy into their life.  Sometimes you may realize it is difficult for you to bring laughter upon the lips and that it may take time, if you come with silks and satins and pearls, to convince them that you are sharing with them all that you have of self and position, and you are one with them, that you are with them in a spirit of unity.  Because they have eyes that see and penetrate, for they have gone through sorrows, they have gone through tribulations, and their eyes do not see simply the outward things, but they see the inward.  And men, in order to be one with them, you must be in the spirit of severance, you must be the servant of the servants of God, and only in that way may you be at one with humanity by being the servant of the servants of God, and that calls for severance.
And to be at one with the world of humanity you must then, after having given all of yourself to Almighty God and to His servants upon the earth, soar forth, delivering your material self to humanity, soar forth in the spirit of Almighty God, vibrating in harmony with His divine flow, and there, reaching out to Him, find that inspiration that will guide you on without thought of boundary, of social distinction, of racial distinction, of national distinction, unto the Kingdom of God which has been prepared for all of His children and which today is being illumined by the divine Tablets that are being revealed, being presented, to us.
Alláh-u-Abhá!


X:11, 27 September 1919
page 213
The seed sowing of the ages
Address by Mrs May Maxwell of Montreal, Canada, delivered at the Fifth Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Monday evening, 28 April 1919.
Beloved friends:  As we have gathered here day by day and night by night in this room in the heart of this great city, we must have all realized that we are in the presence of an extraordinary event, that as the torrents of living water have poured from these great creative Tablets over our souls, we have been submerged in a realm of light and beauty and love which leaves us in great amazement.  It may be that the most difficult thing for the soul is to become conscious of the greatness of events with which we are contemporaneous.  We look back over the history of the human race and we see how many thousand years ago God made covenant with mankind through Abraham, and in that covenant He promised that the day would come upon this dark world when the seed of Abraham should be as the stars of heaven and the sands of the sea.  When Moses gave the great Tablets to the Jewish people and they gathered on either side of the mountain and took an oath of allegiance and devotion and love and loyalty to that great covenant of steadfastness and servitude
page 214
to the people, another great epoch in the seed-sowing was unfolded.
When we look back upon such periods in the world we realize their greatness.  We understand their sublime significance, and yet we here gathered are living in a period so infinitely greater and more wonderful that we are dazzled by the brightness of the light so that we cannot see.  Those Jewish people fulfilled their covenant and were led away and found the Promised Land of God and then, after a period of time came the Beloved One, the Son of God, Jesus Christ, and gathered around him a little group of souls and illumined them, educated them, taught them and prepared them for the great seed-sowing of that Christian era.  After their Beloved One had ascended to the supreme realm and they were left alone on earth without him they went to the mountain top and renounced all that they had in this world.  They gave up their homes, their families, their possessions, all that was near and dear to them on this earthly plane of existence, and they dedicated themselves utterly to the servitude of Jesus Christ, to their Lord and their Master, to go forth and to be the torch bearers to the world of humanity.  They were the seed of God in the world.  Their seed and their children's seed spread and enveloped the world until today the great Christian dispensation that was sown by these early disciples has enveloped a great part of the world.
In what a day are we living, in what an age are we?  We have the privilege today that those disciples had, but not after the departure of our Beloved, but while he is still in our midst.  He is calling us to ascend to the mountain top, to sacrifice and renunciation, to give up all in life, because Bahá'u'lláh has said in this day let no one come to me unless he have his head in his hand.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is calling us again; he has for twenty years been calling this nation.  We have been partially asleep and partially deaf and partially blind, but now we are awakened and because in his infinite bounty he has created a new spiritual springtime.  God through the great laws of evolution has permitted the world to be harrowed and furrowed by war and sorrow and calamity until it is prepared; the soil of human hearts is prepared for the eternal seed of life, the seed of the love of the adored Beloved One.  And now 'Abdu'l-Bahá has sent this seed to us, the potentiality, the mystery of a seed which shall unfold throughout ages, and cycles and generations to millions and millions of human beings.
What is that seed to be?  Are we not ourselves that seed?  Must we not be of that pure essence that wherever we go and become implanted in that place even temporarily we impart the life of God, the life of the Covenant to the people of the world?  This is the seed of life.  See the whirlwind that the world has reaped in this day because they have sown their tares!  Mankind has sown in selfishness, darkness, ignorance and greed, and now today it is reaping this terrible whirlwind of the flood of infinite calamities; but now 'Abdu'l-Bahá is calling us to sow the seed of truth, of love, of light, of justice, of righteousness, and eternal unfathomable peace, that shall envelop all mankind for hundreds of thousands of years.
We must all realize that never from the beginning of the world until now was such a moment offered to any people.  We are truly standing in that "eleventh hour" promised from the foundation of the world.  You remember in the Book of Daniel it says that at the time of the end, "they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they who turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever."  And this is that hour of consummation in which we are gathered.  Everyone of us is blest beyond all the inhabitants of the earth because we have the privilege to be in the presence of the most sublime creative Word of God
page 215
which is being poured upon our hearts and innate reality to create in us a new capacity and to send us forth to give life to the people of the world.
Jesus said, "Work while it is day, for soon the night cometh, when the way to the vineyard will not be so easy to find."  And 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "Now while the Sun of Truth is still shining and the Son of God's Covenant is manifest, go forth and work, for soon the night time cometh and the way to the vineyard will not be so easy to find."  Many years ago in 'Akká our Beloved Master said to us, "The time will come when the people will come here to 'Akká as you are coming now and they will weep and lament because they have not seen one of these days."  He said, "They will tear down these gates and build gates of the most beautiful marble in the world and then the ages will roll by and new generations will come and they will bring bricks of solid gold and silver and build the gates."  And then in the garden of Ridván which sheltered Bahá'u'lláh during his lifetime, he said, "You are privileged to enter this garden to drink of this Fountain of Light, to be in this presence during his appearance in the Temple of Man on this earth.  There is no period that can be compared in this world to living in the day contemporaneous with the appearance of that Beloved One on the earth.  It is different from any other time.  It is life, it is joy, it is ecstasy, it is springtime, because his feet are treading this earth!"
We can hear his voice.  We know that he is still guarding, and protecting and sheltering us in the midst of this dark world and never shall we have such a privilege to serve as while he is in our midst.  There must be a great significance in his saying, "Soon the night time shall come and the way to the vineyard will not be so easy to find."  What is this great mystery?  Why is he calling on us now to go forth and sow the seed at this time, now?  Because the ground is prepared, the way is made plain, the hearts are hungering and thirsting in every corner of the world, and this great capacity is created; also because the seed only germinates in the heat rays of the Sun of Truth.  There is no period of love like the period when the Beloved is in our midst.  He is the Beloved and we are his lovers, and while he is on the earth the heat of his love, the fire of his beauty, that love burning in the hearts of his servants is what will cause the seed which is sown to grow and germinate and expand and bring forth a great harvest.  That is why he said one word spoken during the lifetime of the Beloved is worth volumes hereafter.  One word spoken during this day while he is on the earth is worth volumes hereafter, and he has said, "One deed done in this day is worth the greatest deeds in the future generations."
He told us that even the words of the thieves upon the cross are known and remembered throughout all ages and throughout all nations and people because they were spoken in the lifetime of Christ while he was on the earth.  They were spoken in the full blazing light of the Sun.  Now we have this privilege to go forth and in the light of the Sun of Truth and the Sun of Reality and sow these seeds, and they will produce a wonderful harvest because the rays of his love are pouring upon the world.  How can we do less than this for him?  We have no other way of expressing our love for 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This is the proof of love.  It is this love that has drawn us together.  He is the great magnet that has drawn us together from all parts and brought us here until we are fused and united in a love that makes us seem an absolute body, a temple.  We are one people, one gathering, one congregation of the Lord in this day and he is pouring His Spirit upon us for a great purpose.
We must not leave these gatherings even for a moment, and we must not
page 222
leave them when the final Tablet is given to us and we have heard its wonderful message.  Then we must stay together, all whose hearts are touched and moved by this great force, we must come together and work to carry out this plan.  We must grasp this wonderful opportunity and realize that the like of this has never been given to any people in any time from the beginning of the world until today.
Today, heralding the Kingdom is the magnetic force of the world of humanity because there is great richness in the souls.  The divine teachings are the spirit of this age; they are the sun of this age.  Every soul must endeavour in order that the veils may be torn away from the eyes, then instantly they see the Sun, and the heart and the eyes become illumined thereby.
Now, through the assistance and favour of God, this power of guidance and this merciful bestowal are found in thee!  Therefore, with the utmost power go forward so that to the mouldering bones thou carriest life, to the blind eyes thou givest sight, quickening souls that are depressed-for every road will in the end become crooked except the road of the Kingdom, which day by day becomes straighter!
Unquestionably the heavenly melody cannot be measured by the melody of the earth, and the artificial lamps cannot be measured by the heavenly Sun.  Therefore, one must strive for whatsoever is eternal and everlasting in order day by day to become more illumined, day by day to grow stronger and day by day find new life.


X:11, 27 September 1919
page 216
Diary letters of Shoghi Rabbání
Written to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Haifa, Palestine.
8 February 1919
Dear Ahmad,
The Tablet revealed yesterday to one of the tried and firm American friends disclosed general and important questions related to the future development of the Cause.  I quote some of its leading passages:
"O thou firm in the Covenant!  Your letter dated 23 November 1918 was received.  Its contents indicated your being engaged in the service of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, that this universal edifice may be erected.  Indeed, you spare no effort in this respect and I entertain the hope that this endeavour may grow day by day.  Deeds are like unto trees; for to plant a shrub is no difficult matter while the care necessary for its growth and yielding fruit is hard and difficult.  So far, effort was expended to lay the foundation of the Temple, but now its erection and completion is a difficult matter and my hope is that the friends of God may be therein assisted.
"The second question which is of vital importance is that the friends of God must strive with heart and soul to promulgate heavenly teachings and spread far and wide the light of the Kingdom.  For the world of humanity has acquired, as a result of this great carnage, a great capacity for the propagation of universal peace.  Ears are longing to hearken to the call of the oneness of the world of humanity, to universal reconciliation and to the rejection of ignorant prejudices.
"In fine, if all the friends of God engage in the promulgation of heavenly teachings, the establishment of universal peace shall be a foregone conclusion.
page 217
"Praise be to God, whatever has been explicitly recorded in the divine Tablets has been fully realized and all the warnings and appeals of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the temples and gatherings of America, have come to pass.  At present, we hope that all will engage in the service of the Kingdom and will promulgate whatever is the will of God.
"The teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh are today the spirit of life, the means of peace and reconciliation, the cause of amity and union, and the promoter of the oneness of mankind.  One should engage in such a service."
This afternoon our Indian officer, Captain Áqá Khán of Lahore, Punjab, who is a devout Moslem, keenly interested in the role that the Cause will play in the future-a traveller and observer in different regions of the West as well as the Far East, a tourist to Spain and a resident for many years in Peking, Tientsin, Tokyo and Yokohama, a scholar of the religious movements in the East-called on 'Abdu'l-Bahá carrying with him the article of 'Abbás 'Alí of Rangoon, published in one of the local Indian papers of Punjab, which he had translated for 'Abdu'l-Bahá into English.  The article was a lucid and at the same time a striking account of the teachings of the Cause, of the early life, the declaration, the persecution and the martyrdom of the Báb and the rise of Bahá'u'lláh, his early trials, his exile, his declaration and his amazing power displayed in the distant fortress of 'Akká.
'Abdu'l-Bahá entertained for over an hour this diligent scholar, told him that under chains and fetters Bahá'u'lláh propagated his teachings, the mutual arrangements of the rulers of Turkey and of Persia to quench his Light and the utter failure of their plans and intentions.  Áqá Khán was amazed to know that the remains of the Báb, who was shot in Tabríz, were transferred to this Holy Mount on the slopes of which, and not far distant, his tent was pitched and his camp was established.  He resolutely decided to visit the shrine and if possible to visit the Holy Tomb in 'Akká.  When he left he told 'Abdu'l-Bahá that next time he would bring with him some of his Indian friends and colleagues who expressed their wish to meet the Beloved.
9 February 1919.
Dear Ahmad,
This morning some Tablets were revealed to the friends in the United States of America.  One of them, a devout and active soul has written these words to 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "This humble maid-servant especially wishes to ask thee at this time, concerning the publication of two indexes which she has prepared, one to the first eight volumes of the Star of the West, the other to the three volumes of the Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas.  If this work does not interfere with carrying out thy instruction already given, this maid-servant would like very much to go on and work on a complete and scholarly index of all the writings.  This would take years of time and the efforts of many individuals, but this maid-servant might be able to make a good beginning and she has been trained in science, mathematics and systematic arrangement, and has a steadfast longing to be engaged in this work."
These are the efforts expended, such are the views that are being planned and so untiring are the services rendered.  Although the answer to the supplication has not yet been revealed, yet one thing is sure, that 'Abdu'l-Bahá will most deeply appreciate such services and will undoubtedly breathe into their life a new breath that will sustain them throughout their activities.
This afternoon being bright and warm, 'Abdu'l-Bahá ascended the mountain and visited the Tomb of the Báb where the friends had assembled for their weekly Sunday gatherings, where he inquired regarding the spiritual activities of the S.P.C. students (Beirut) to which one of
page 218
its members, Mr Bahádur, who is still here for a short visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, replied that their weekly Sunday gatherings are uninterruptedly held within the college grounds.  This leading to a certain statement made by the president of the college with respect to his Sunday morning Bible classes, 'Abdu'l-Bahá referred to the relative standing of the Holy Books and their adaptation to their respective environment.  The Old Testament, he said, is largely historical and partly states various commands and regulations.  The Gospel, on the other hand, in addition to these two subjects, reveals a whole set of admonition and exhortation, of counsels and of advice.  The Qur'án embodies all three of these and in addition reveals abstruse, scientific and mathematical problems.  He then spoke in detail of the variety of the branches in mathematics and astronomy as expounded by the Egyptian, Babylonian, Greek, Roman and Persian leaders and scientists.  He then referred to the rise of Ptolemy, his compilation of the different theories of past mathematicians, his school in Alexandria, his book being the essence and gist of previous laws and theories and his founding the well-known Ptolemaic system.  He told us how all astronomers and philosophers believed in his system and although Pythagoras and Plato revealed contradictory facts, that the Ptolemaic system was considered the immutable and correct law.  Then arose that illiterate, young, inexperienced Arab leader in the Arabian peninsula, who revealed his Qur'án wherein the following words are incorporated:  "The sun moves in a fixed place and each star moves in its own heaven."  These bodily challenged the whole Ptolemaic system and shook it down to its very foundation.  However, it was not until the 15th century, when the famous Copernicus discarded the baseless interpretation of the 'ulamás in their explanation of the two above-mentioned verses, overthrew the Ptolemaic system and asserted the truth of the statement of the illiterate Arab youth, who declared the movement of the earth and the immobility of the sun.  The whole scientific world arose to the consciousness of this truth.  What clearer and stronger proof may be stated for the establishment of the truth of the Islamic Revelation?  The Qur'án itself abounds with similar conclusive evidences.
10 February 1919.
Dear Ahmad,
The misery and need of the civil population of Haifa, at the time of British and allied occupation, has necessitated the formation of a Haifa Relief Fund composed of the heads of the different religious denominations and acting under the surveillance of the British authorities with a fund collected and deposited at the newly established branch of the Anglo-Egyptian Bank.  The first meeting which was held at the Governorate where from the bishop to the Jewish rabbi, the religious heads had all assembled and where 'Abdu'l-Bahá, through the announcement made by the military governor, contributed the noble donation of £50 and inserted his name at the head of the list of contributors, which will stand as a token of his generosity, his approval of the means undertaken to alleviate the burden of the poor and his setting the noble example to the rich and leaders of the city.  This morning again I was sent to the Governor and offered him a further sum for the relief of the poor.  Colonel Stanton was indeed touched and, moved by this further donation, hastened to write these lines to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in token of his admiration and thanks, as follows:
"Your Eminence:  I have today received from your grandson the sum of £50 as a further donation from yourself to the Haifa Relief Fund.  Please accept on behalf of the committee of management, my very sincerest and most grateful thanks for this fur-
page 219
ther proof of your well-known generosity and care of the poor, who will forever bless you for your liberality on their behalf.  Please accept the sincerest assurance of my deepest regards and respect.  (Signed) G. A. Stanton, Colonel, Military Governor."
This undoubtedly will be a stimulus for the indifferent rich men of the city who will be urged to put their hands very deeply in their pockets in order to allay the suffering and distress which in spite of all these activities is still prevalent.
The supplications that have come today abound with refreshing news.  A letter from Bombay discloses the rise of newly attracted friends, particularly Yúsúf 'Alá'u'd-Dawlih who is one of the well known Khagetes of India.  He, with Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání, is yearning to visit the Beloved and will be delighted to hear of the granting of their permission.  From Lausanne, Switzerland, Mr Ridá Salím writes that the friends of God including Mr Schwarz, Miss Knobloch, Mr Herrigel are all, large and small, old and young, healthy and sick, at home and abroad, glad of the events that have recently transpired; they are all one soul in different bodies, united, agreed, serving and aiming to serve the oneness of the world of humanity.  From southern Palestine, a letter from Shaykh Amín Halabí who had drunk plentifully from the fountain of inspiration during his last stay with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, indicates the attraction of two souls, deeply interested, eagerly seeking and wide awake to the new spirit of the present age.  His stay in Jerusalem on his way to Beersheba had yielded good fruits and of this he was proud and for it grateful.  A detailed supplication from Juanita Storch, exquisitely written, reveals the sentiments of love and of thankfulness.  I have already quoted [a] few of her characteristic lines and I cannot prevent myself from sharing with you some of its charming passages:
"How quickly these days of whirling activities are passing.  History is being made in the twinkling of an eye.  How storm-tortured the world is.  When will it recover from the storms of hatred of mental crashing, of heart-torn agonies?  Yea, and still the great Spirit hovers over us, daily waiting, patiently holding out its loving arms silently growing more and more passionate in its desire for the love of its people.
"An angel of hope walks through the Ridván of Abhá.  Upon her shoulder is poised a vase filled with the rose petals of love and upheld by the right hand of wisdom.  She walks through the olive groves of peace and by the beds of the sweet hyacinths of knowledge and over to the fountain of mercy.  Here she kneels on the steps and sets her vase under the crystal spray of the fountain.  The petals in the vase are soon covered with the water.  Then this angel of hope sets this rose jar out in the brilliant Sun of Truth and leaves it there.  After many days the essence of the roses gathers as oil on the surface of the water.  O precious attar of the fragrances of God!
"A picture of the Master comes to me as he holds his rosary in hand outstretched to all who heed to this heavenly call.  A picture of the Master comes to me as he holds his rosary, thinking of friends both far and near as pearls of his heart.  A picture of the Master comes to me as he holds his rosary, chanting in a prayerful hour, 'Glory to the Most Great Power.'"
To this profusion of genuine sentiments and to this authoress of tender feelings, 'Abdu'l-Bahá not only spends the days in revealing his words of appreciation, but even until late at night when everything is hushed in silence and every tongue is at rest, then does the wakeful Beloved reveal his soothing words and his precious lines.  The experience of last night afforded a striking illustration and evidenced the close attachment the Beloved feels for his friends and his maid-servants.  As I am
page 220
writing these lines, I am again moved to present myself in his presence and take down his words in response to the recently arrived supplications.
11 February 1919.
Dear Ahmad,
Another veil is lifted.  News as contained in letters, the first so far since the outbreak of the war, have reached us from Persia as well as from India.  Meagre and insufficient as the news is at present, yet it assures us of the welfare of the friends.  Although few have succumbed to the trials and calamities occasioned by the war, such as the reported death of Nayyirih Lina, Bamandar and Mírzá Na'ím of Tihrán, three of the choicest friends in the Cause, yet consolation lies in the safety and well-being of the mass of the friends, their unanimous rise to herald the Kingdom, to tear asunder the veils o£ concealment and prudence and their unrestricted, unhampered activity in the Cause of God.  Their meetings, notwithstanding famine, pestilence, rapine, internal war and isolation from the Holy Land, have been regularly conducted and elaborately organized.  In Tihrán, the most active centre of Persia, the friends associate, deal and transact as Bahá'ís, openly declaring their faith, emphatically and fearlessly delivering the message and gathering in their flood men of every class, of every denomination and of every sect-as 'Abdu'l-Bahá has already repeatedly intimated in his blessed Tablets for Persia, Russia and Egypt, the only group and the one body which is able and wields the necessary power to assure for Persia her integrity, her weal and her prosperity.  Factions and parties have failed in their aims and have met disappointment in the realization of their aspirations.  The Nationalists, the Reactionaries, the Liberals and the Democrats have made Persia a desolate country, while these wanderers and strangers shall soon, God willing, render a distinguished service to Persia and to her sons, for we hold fast to effective means and are attached to powerful souls.  Indeed, this wish of the Beloved is being realized and fulfilled, for at present amid the agitation and uproar that still prevails in Persia, the qualities of trustworthiness, truthfulness, obedience, frankness, conscientiousness and loyalty are exclusively embodied in the friends of God-so much so that a government that has persecuted, tortured, exiled, burned and devastated the homes of those who were related to this Cause, has now placed its full confidence and has elected a Bahá'í to be its representative at the great International Congress sitting at Paris.
'Abdu'l-Bahá spent the whole day indoors, with no outstanding event marking the activities of the day save a detailed telegram bearing your signature, dated 10 February, and reading as follows:
"With thy divine assistance leave now on Yahoshi Maru Japanese steamer direct for New York via Gilera.  All things perfect, travelling first class.  Am only passenger, fare 38 pounds.  Mahmond Noushogadi, one of friends helped me in this.  Beg thy favour and Tablet for him."
Your sailing directly to New York was providential and just the will and desire of the Beloved.  A good start.  I wish you a comfortable and speedy voyage.
Shoghi Rabbání
[continued XI:3, p. 48.]


X:11, 27 September 1919
page 221
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Elizabeth Herlitz
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Elizabeth Herlitz, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art enkindled with the fire of the love of God!
Thy letter was received.  Thy gladness made me happy that, praise be to God, that torch has been lit and the chamber of thy heart and soul illumined and resplendent.  Do not consider thy capacity and worth.  Turn thy face to the Abhá Kingdom for that shower of perpetual bounty causes flowers and lilies to grow from stones, and that ray from the Sun of Truth breeds a shining diamond in a heart of stone.
Ever add to thy hope and endeavour that the supreme favour may be made manifest and the glorious bounty be made resplendent.
Convey my utmost love and kindness to thy dear and respected husband.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 11 April 1919; house of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
page 222
Juliet Thompson
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Juliet Thompson-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!
... Add as much as ye can to love and affinity and produce ye amongst yourselves unity and agreement.  Put ye in practice the principles of consultation. ...
Do ye not refer regarding any matter in these days to the President of the Republic.
Strive ye as far as ye can in the establishment of love and reconciliation amongst the religions and service to the oneness of the world of humanity; perchance, God willing, universal peace may be founded and all the communities and religions of the world may usher under the uni-coloured shade of the canopy of the Merciful,-that this dark cloud of hate and animosity amongst the religions and nations may be scattered from the horizon of the world and the light of love and fellowship may dawn and flood all the regions.
Convey on my behalf to the attracted maid-servant of God, Mrs Maxwell, the greeting of heart.  I beg of God that she may become confirmed and assisted in all affairs.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 10 July 1919.  Revealed 30 December 1918.


X:12, 16 October 1919
page 226
Recent Tablet to the Paris Assembly
To the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful One, in Paris, France-Upon them be the Glory of God Abhá
HE IS GOD!
O friends of God!
Your letter was received through Mrs Stannard.  Its contents gave me the utmost joy, for-Praise be to God!-the Spiritual Meeting has been organized also in Paris.  Confirmed believers come together and engage in speaking of the Kingdom of God, in seeking the Truth, and in speaking the teachings which are the spirit of this age:
The unity of mankind.
The establishment of universal peace, right and justice.
Showing that religion must be conducive to harmony amongst men, and conforming to reason and science.
The equality of men and women.
Freedom and liberty for all.
The enlightenment of heavenly morals.
Love for all men and even for animals.
The universalization of general knowledge.
A profession, trade, agriculture, are worshipping God.  A farmer who cultivates his land with the utmost application is like a worshiper who, with deepest reverence and humility, prays to God in a temple.  When the labourer works honestly and sincerely it is as though he were praying.
These are the teachings which are the spirit of this century and the light of this age.  Whoever inhales their fragrance is drawn to them, especially as they are confirmed by the Testament and the Covenant, the Covenant which is the cause of illuminating the world, which gives the Spirit of Life, makes souls enlightened, divine and celestial, causes them to shine like a light and transforms them into scintillating stars.
O friends of Paris!  Know that no soul is quickened except through the spirit of the Covenant, no eye is illumined except by the light of the Covenant, no ear is thrilled except by the melody of the Covenant, and no heart shows forth the divine sentiments except by the bounty of the Covenant.  The people of Paris are full of enthusiasm and become attracted with the utmost swiftness.  Therefore, the fire of the love of God will burn intensely and spread everywhere.
Some of the regions of Europe are extremely enthusiastic.  Day by day more souls enter the Cause.  You have heard of this certainty.  Now, make an effort, and with all your might enkindle the fire of love of the Covenant, so that Paris may surpass the other regions; and if the Covenant is made to shine forth as it should, in a short time wonderful results will become apparent; for, in this day, the moving power throughout the whole world is the power of the Covenant:  it is the artery pulsating in the body of the phenomenal.
To sum up, I am greatly pleased with these few souls who are in Paris, and I love you very much.  I hope that you will fill the meeting with enthusiasm, and be the cause of guidance to others.  Convey greetings on my behalf to each one, and upon you be greetings and praises.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
23 July 1919.


X:12, 16 October 1919
page 230
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Corinne True
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Corinne True, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Your numerous letters have been received.  The question of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is of supreme importance and of great results.  It is the first edifice to be placed in that country and-Praise be to the Almighty!-the friends of God, all, from all parts are contributing.  Numerous designs for its erection have been drafted.  One of these designs must be chosen in the Convention.
His honour, Mr Albert Vail is prepared and has capacity for great services.  From the favours of God I hope that he may enkindle in the globe of that land a light that shall illumine with its rays of guidance the vicinity and the surrounding regions.
The organization of joint assemblies for white and coloured people shall manifest the oneness of the world of humanity; shall dissipate totally and eradicate ignorant racial fanaticism, and shall satisfy all from the fountain of the water of Life.
We have cabled Mr Remey to postpone his tour, for his presence, in these days, in America is necessary.  In reality, he has been and is engaged in the utmost power in service and I love him infinitely, and verily he merits this love of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
...  Convey on my behalf the utmost love and kindness to Miss Jean Masson for she has expended the utmost effort in writing the article in the newspaper.  She serves thereby the Kingdom of God and promulgates divine teachings.  Deal ye with love and kindness with Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
God wishes love, unity and harmony.  Upon this exert ye all effort.  This is the cause of the glory of God; this is the cause of drawing near to the court of the Almighty, and this is the cause of entrance into the Kingdom of God.
Convey on my behalf, to Dr Díyá (Baghdádí) the utmost love and kindness.  In my estimation, he is very near, for he is the son of his honour Áqá Muhammad Mustafá.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 23 May 1919.
Roy C. Wilhelm
To his honour Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, New York, N.Y.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant and the Testament!
Thy letters dated 22 and 29 March, as well as thy card of 11 April were received.  The organization of the meeting representative of different denominations in New York, at which all religions and sects had affiliated together in the utmost love and harmony, was conducive to extreme joy.
My hope is that meetings of such nature may often be organized so that representatives of all the different races, religions, sects and countries of the world may in the utmost love embrace one another, that no trace of bigotry and of ignorant prejudice, of obstinacy and rancour may remain, and the pavilion and canopy of the oneness of the world of humanity may be raised upon the apex of the world.  For all men are the sheep of God and divine providence the kind and loving Shepherd.
Similarly the meeting that had been called at Washington, my hope is that remarkable consequences may result therefrom.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 25 May 1919.
page 231
Kúkab MacCutcheon
To the maid-servant of God, Kúkab MacCutcheon, Minneapolis, Minnesota-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou brilliant Kúkab (Star)!
Praise be to God!  Thou hast become resplendent with the light of guidance and from the bestowals of the Kingdom of God thou hast partaken a share and a portion.  In tests thou hast remained firm and upright.
At present thy purpose is to organize a meeting and to guide the souls in the divine Kingdom.  Excellent is thy intention.  Found thou this assembly in thy own home and arise in the guidance of souls.
Be thou not grieved on account of the departure of thy father, mother and brother because they became delivered from the world which is full of sadness and sorrow and they have hastened to the realm of joy.  They have become freed from the fetters of this prison and soared to the divine court.
Thou hast asked for permission to come.  At present your presence there is necessary, so that the Cause may be established.  After the establishment of the Cause thou hast permission to come.
Should it be possible for thee to establish a school for the Bahá'í children and teach, it will be exceedingly acceptable.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, Illinois, 25 July 1919.  Revealed at Haifa, Palestine, 31 May 1919.
Cora Ditmars
To the maid-servant of God, Cora Ditmars, Spokane, Washington-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast exerted a great effort for that imprisoned person.  Perhaps it may prove to be fruitful.  Tell him, however, that the denizens of the world are confined in the prison of nature-a prison that is continuous and eternal.  If thou art at present restrained within the limits of a temporary prison, be not grieved at this; my hope is that thou mayest be emancipated from the prison of nature and may attain unto the court of everlasting Life.  Pray to God day and night and beg forgiveness and pardon.  The omnipotence of God shall solve every difficulty.
O thou dear maid-servant of God!  Praise be to God, thou art endowed with a pure heart and an exalted determination.  Thou hast an eloquent tongue and givest to every person a share and portion of the teachings of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá does not seek membership at the Peace Congress.  He promulgates peace through the power of the Word of God.  It is impossible to establish universal peace save through this power.
Convey on my behalf to those souls whose names thou hast mentioned in thy letter, greeting and kindness.  I pray God that they may be confirmed in service to the Kingdom of God.
It is preferable that in the meetings, one of the attendants should read or chant the Tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and the others listen to the reading.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 3 June 1919.
Annie L. Parmerton
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Annie L. Parmerton, Cincinnati, Ohio-Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant and the Testament!
Your detailed letter dated 30 April 1919, was received.  It contained joy-
page 232
ful tidings that-Praise be to God!-thou hast been assisted to raise the call of the Kingdom and hast become the cause of the guidance of many a soul.  In assemblies thou hast shed light like unto a candle, has eloquently spoken and hast promulgated the divine teachings.  Today whosoever arises to serve the Kingdom, heavenly angels shall confirm him, spiritual forces shall be his help and support, the breaths of the Holy Spirit shall vivify his heart and all existent beings will be his assistants.
Consider how all the contingent beings have supported and served those blessed souls who have arisen in service to the Kingdom.  A fisherman became the most great Peter; Mary Magdalene, only a peasant, gained a precedence of the queens of the world, for a hundred-thousand queens have come and gone and no trace and memory have they left behind, but Mary Magdalene to the present day, like unto a star, is shining from the horizon of the most Supreme Glory.  This is what is meant by everlasting life, by baptism with the Holy Spirit and by being born again to which Christ refers.
Convey on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Bahá the utmost love and longing to the friends in St. Louis, in Cincinnati and in Kansas City, and to the maid-servant of God, Mrs Jones.  From the bounties of God I hope that, through spiritual power and the remedy of the Spirit of God, thou mayest acquire physical health.
As to the questions thou hast asked:  Concerning Malachi, chapter 3, verses 16, 17 and 18 refer to the friends of God, and in St. Matthew, chapter 25, the object of verses 31, 32 and 33 is the Blessed Beauty.  As to Micah, chapter 5, the 4th verse refers to Christ.  In Zephaniah, chapter 1, verses 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, and in Zechariah, chapter 2, verses 10, 11, 12 and 13, and in St. Luke, chapter 21, verses 20 to the end-all these refer to the century of the Blessed Beauty.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 4 June 1919.
page 233
Harlan Foster Ober
To his honour, Mr Harlan Foster Ober, Cambridge, Massachusetts-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Your detailed letter was received.  Praise be to God, that in the utmost energy, the friends of God have arisen to promulgate heavenly teachings and are self-sacrificing from every standpoint.  Verily, this is the sign of the confirmations of the divine Kingdom which, like into the sun, are manifest and evident.  The sending of teachers to different parts is highly acceptable and praiseworthy.  Act in accordance with the instructions previously sent.
Today the stirring power that exhibits itself throughout all regions is the power of the Covenant which, like unto the artery, beats and pulsates in the body of the world.  He who is firmer in the Covenant is more assisted, just as ye are manifestly witnessing how firm souls are enkindled, attracted and confirmed.
Strive, therefore, day and night that ye may cause the hearts to become firm and resolute.  The journey of teachers to different parts is like unto the rays of the sun which radiate from a central point to the surrounding regions and undoubtedly great illumination will be obtained.
You had inquired concerning the financial question of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and the expenses of the teachers.  Appropriation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár fund for purposes different from those that pertain to the Temple is not permissible and conversely the teaching fund is not to be used for Mashriqu'l-Adhkár purposes.  Both should be used in their own respective spheres.  If it is not done accordingly matters will be completely upset.  The future should be taken into consideration and not the present.  I beg God that He may confirm you always in that which is the cause of the gladness of your heart.
Concerning the Star of the West, the organ must be so promulgated in America and Persia that at least its necessary expenses may be provided.  Upon this point a letter shall be written to Persia.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 24 June 1919.
Executive Board of Bahá'í Temple Unity
To the members of the Executive Board of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye blessed souls!
Praise be to God, that ye have been confirmed with such a supreme bounty and have arisen with all your power in the service of the Kingdom, which is no other than service to the oneness of the world of humanity.
The magnet attracts unto itself the iron, while this promulgation of divine teachings attracts heavenly confirmation.  Soon ye shall consider what a profound effect it shall exert and what a manifest sign it shall display.
I am greatly pleased with you, for day and night ye concentrate your time upon the commemoration of God, that ye seek the divine good-pleasure, pray for heavenly bounty and are firm in the Covenant.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 24 June 1919.
Sarah van Winkle
To the maid-servant of God, Sarah van Winkle, Boston, Massachusetts-Upon her he Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast written that in view of the questions of
page 234
violation thou art perturbed.  There is no occasion for perturbation for the Blessed Beauty has closed all doors of error and doubt and has entered with all the friends into a Covenant and a Testament, beginning first with the Aghsáns, the Afnáns and the relatives.  Explicitly and in a way that shuts out all interpretation, he says that "after My ascension, turn your faces toward him who has branched from the Pre-Existent Root", and then he manifestly says that by him who is branched from the Pre-Existent such a person is meant.  In fine, he has appointed the Centre of the Covenant as the authority and the Expounder of the Book.  Now it must be either said that the Blessed Beauty has done wrong and was ignorant of the fact that this person deserved this station, or obedience should be shown.  In brief, it must be either said that the Blessed Beauty was wrong or right, there is no third alternative.  And furthermore, through the assistance and the bounty of the Blessed Beauty, a power and might has been displayed by the Centre of the Covenant that all the contemporary great men and philosophers are amazed, and bear witness to the fact.  There should be no occasion therefore for agitation.  If, God forbid, a weakness and inability is exhibited, how will Bahá'í unity be preserved and how will the teachings of the Blessed Beauty be promulgated?  Will they be promulgated through the senseless words of those who pretend to be philosophers, or through the doubts of the people of violation and lust?  In brief, strive thou to remain firm in the Covenant and under the guarding protection of His Highness the Merciful.
Convey on my behalf to the maidservant of God, Miss Wilson, the utmost kindness.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine.  18 July 1919.
Martha Root
To the maid-servant of God, Martha Root, Cambridge Springs, Pennsylvania-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy detailed and brief letters have all been received, and have been attentively perused.  Praise be to God, they imparted glad-tidings and joyful news.  Thou are indeed serving in the path of God, art with all thy energy showing love to others, art raising the call of the Kingdom and, art illumining the hearts of men.  Rest thou assured that the confirmations of the Kingdom shall encompass thee and thou shalt become the recipient of the bounties of the Lord of Hosts.  Strive as much as possible to be ever active, travel to the north and south of that land and summon all to the oneness of the world of humanity and to universal peace, saying:  "O ye men!  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has, fifty years ago, laid the foundation of universal peace.  He even addressed epistles to the kings wherein he declared that war destroys the foundation of the world of humanity, that peace is the cause of everlasting life and that a great danger awaiteth the world of mankind.  Likewise, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, prior to this world war and three years before its outbreak travelled throughout Europe and America and raised his call at all gatherings, temples and churches saying:  'O ye who are present!  The continent of Europe has become a huge arsenal abounding with combustible material and below which are stored inflammable materials which only a spark will set aflame and will shake the world to its very foundation.  O ye who are wise!  Strive perchance these inflammable materials will not be set aflame.'  But the appeal was not heeded and therefore this great carnage has come to pass.  At present all the peoples have realized what a great calamity war is, that war turns man
page 235
into a rapacious animal, razes to the ground flourishing cities and towns and causes the foundation of mankind to totter.  As all men have been awakened and are harkening to the call, it is time for the promulgation of universal peace-a peace which has for its basis right and justice; so that mankind will not be exposed to danger.  At present it is the dawn of universal peace, we hope that its sun will soon shine and flood the East and the West with its light.  The establishment of universal peace is not possible save through the power of the Word of God and hence one must endeavour to promote the Word of God and thereby establish universal peace.  Strive at present as much as possible to raise the call of the divine Kingdom for this call bestows the Spirit of Life.  Endeavour to raise the call of the Covenant and the Testament for the power of the Covenant, like unto arteries, pulsates in the body of the world!"
Thou hast mentioned a great number of souls in thy letter.  Verily each one of them deserves a separate letter, particularly some who, with all their power, are serving the Kingdom of God, have no purpose save the common weal and no aim except the exercise of the utmost love and kindness to each and all the individuals of the world of humanity.  These souls, although they pertain to the nether world, yet their souls belong to the world of spirit; i.e., they have been vivified by the breath of spiritual life.  Their hearts are the mirrors of the Sun of Truth wherein this sun shines with the utmost splendour.  Convey on my behalf to each of those souls the utmost love and kindness and tell them that day and night I entreat and supplicate to the Kingdom of Glory with the utmost humility and lowliness and beg for those souls heavenly confirmations.
Thou hadst written, concerning the friends of Pittsburgh, that misunderstanding has been caused among them.  Misunderstanding cannot be eliminated by any power save that of the Covenant.  The power of the Covenant is all-inclusive and solves all difficulties, for explicitly and by the Supreme Pen it is declared that whatever misunderstanding takes place, ye must refer to the Centre of the Covenant for he eliminates all difficulties.  Therefore, no power will do away, with misunderstanding among the friends except the Covenant and the Testament of God.  Encourage and draw, therefore, all the friends to firmness in the Covenant and the Testament.  His Holiness Christ said to Peter:  "Thou art a rock and upon this rock I shall build my Temple."  This is not written by the Supreme Pen of Christ and does not manifestly command anyone to turn his face to him and has not been revealed and recorded in the book of His Holiness Christ.  It is only a tradition transmitted by the Apostles.  This tradition, however, has exacted obedience from all and has eliminated all misunderstanding among the Apostles and the Christians.  At present this is the Book of the Covenant and not a tradition and is revealed by the Supreme Pen and not transmitted orally.  He explicitly declares that "ye must turn after Me to the Centre of the Covenant and whatever misunderstanding may happen he is its Expounder, and whatever he says it is right."  He made it all-exclusive and this Tablet is the last one which has been revealed by the Supreme Pen before ascension.  All previous books are subordinate to this Book of the Covenant for it has been revealed subsequently to all the previous ones.  He has named it the "Book of the Covenant" and, therefore, consider that if the friends remain firm in the Covenant, will there be any misunderstanding among them?  No, by God!  Except those souls who have an evil intention and are thinking of leadership and of forming a party; those souls, although they have written epistles with their own pen and have execrated the violators denouncing them as having destroyed the foundation of the monu-
page 236
ment erected by His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and have written that he has written this Covenant with his own pen and that whoever deviated the least from the Centre of the Covenant is of the people of treachery and well deserves the wrath of God-these souls are themselves at present among the pioneers of violation.  This is because of their personal motives for they had thought of securing leadership and wealth, but when they considered that in remaining firm in the Covenant their purpose would not be realized, they deviated from it.  Those souls must have been either at first truthful and now disloyal or at first disloyal and now truthful.  At any rate their lie is manifest.  Notwithstanding this, some souls who are not aware of this fact waver when those cast the seeds of suspicion.  Awaken all the people and send a copy of this letter to Mr Remey Mrs Goodall and Mrs Cooper.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine; 20 July 1919.
Amy Williams
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Amy Williams; Cleveland, Ohio-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou living flame of the love of God!
Thy letter was received.  It was indicative of the illumination of thy heart and the spirituality of thy soul.  Praise be to God, thou hast attended the Convention and hast beheld the signs of the power of God, that in such a place He hath gathered together different people under the shadow of the pavilion of the oneness of mankind.  This Convention shall expand in the future and shall gain preference over all the Conventions of the world for it is a Convention of the Kingdom divine, and its basis lays upon love, kindness, the promulgation of the oneness of the world of humanity, and non-interference in political matters.  Undoubtedly divine confirmations shall be extended and the assistance of the Lord shall be secured.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 18 July 1919.


X:13, 4 November 1919
page 243
"You will find Bahá'í Centres in most parts of the world"
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Assembly Rooms, San Francisco, California, 5 October 1912.
I have the utmost joy to find in the distant West such an established Bahá'í centre, where the friends of God have assembled associating with each other in the utmost love.  This affords me great joy and I ask God that this revered assemblage may be made the cause of illumining the East and the West.  This is my wish, and with the utmost of happiness I am grateful on account of the susceptibilities of your conscience.
Today the people in general are self-occupied.  They are engaged either in warfare, or in commercial, political, industrial, or agricultural pursuits.  Their interests are of a personal nature; they are thinking of self-aggrandizement, having no desire, no purpose save the acquisition of worldly possessions.
The assemblage in the world which today is thoughtful of God, the assemblage which is occupied with the thought of illumining the world of humanity, the assemblage which is occupied with the mentioning of the Kingdom of God, the assemblage which has as its chief motive the good pleasure of the Lord of Hosts, is verily the assemblage of Bahá'ís, for they have no intention, aim, or purpose save the attainment of the good-pleasure of God, and entrance into the Kingdom of God, and of being the promulgators of the religion of God.  They are the spreaders of the fragrances of God.  These are the desires of the assemblage of the Bahá'ís.
All the sects of the world are on the wane except the Bahá'í assemblages which day by day are achieving ideal progress, for they are confirmed by God's assistance.
I hope that many such assemblages may be founded in America, and that from all the centres of the world people may come to the Bahá'í assemblages and there manifest the oneness of the world of humanity.
The people in general are all asleep; they are all inadvertent; they are all slumbering, because their thoughts are confined to materialism; they are not at all thoughtful of God's thoughts except you, who are thinking of God.  Verily, you are the spirit of the world!  You are the cause of the light of the world!  You are the salt of the earth!
Do not look at your limited numbers now.  Ere long you will see that the divine Radiance has flooded all regions.  The believers in the various sects are decreasing in numbers, whereas the people of God are constantly increasing, progressing, developing, day by day growing stronger and greater, day by day becoming more effective.
Consider how the assembly of His Holiness Christ was limited to eleven souls, but that assemblage has given birth to innumerable assemblies!  How many denominations are sheltered beneath it!  Its efficacy is evident, and it has become the dominant factor of all the civilized world.
page 244
Now, praise be to God, your assembly is a great one; you are about two hundred in number; judge thereby of the future.
The Bahá'ís are not in one place only, but you will find Bahá'í centres in most parts of the world, and they are daily increasing and spreading.  You must rest assured, knowing for a certainty that the confirmations of the Kingdom are yours, that the favours of Bahá'u'lláh are with you, that the power heavenly is with you, that the assistance of God is with you.  If all the inhabitants of the earth should gather they will fail to withstand you, for they are on the wane, whereas you are waxing stronger.  They are retrogressing; you are progressing.
When they exiled us from Persia, from Tihrán to Baghdád, the journey was made in thirty stages and in these thirty stages we did not find one Bahá'í.  Now in every one of these places there are great numbers of Bahá'í friends.
Notwithstanding that the ruler of Persia and the Sultán of Turkey opposed the Cause so violently-exercising tyranny and oppression thinking to extinguish the Lamp of God-yet this Lamp day by day grew in radiance, its power increased and its illumination became greater, until it reached such a degree that now its lights are spread throughout the world-even as far as San Francisco, which is very far from Persia.  See what this will mean in the future!
At the time His Holiness Jesus Christ was crucified, there were eleven disciples and even they were doubting-Peter heading them-until Mary the Magdalene, that lioness of God, strengthened them and was the cause of confirming them.  Then consider how great were the results!
And now, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, when He ascended, had half a million souls who were self-sacrificing and all were perfectly firm and staunch!  Consider what a marvellous potency this will exercise.
Rest assured in the favour of God, and know that God is your Assister.  So with great power, with great confidence, strive that the lights of God may be spread and in this country from East to West the light may be shining.
Be confident!  Have no doubt about it!  This banner of Bahá'u'lláh will be unfurled, waving toward all regions!  The lights of the Kingdom of God will illumine all these climes, and the call of God will reach the hearing of all the American Republic!
Hence, you must in the utmost of love, in the utmost of sanctity strive night and day that you may be the cause of spreading the light.  If we are not the instruments in spreading this Cause, others will be chosen.  Then let us strive so that this crown may be placed upon our heads-that we may be the promulgators of the light, that we may be the resuscitators of souls, that we may be sight-givers to the blind, that we may be the remedies to the sick, that we may guide the people.  Otherwise, God will raise up a people who will hoist the standard of God, who will ignite the Lamp of God, who will conquer the cities of the hearts, who will show forth the potency of the Word of God.
But for us the desire is that we may be the instruments and thus we may be crowned.  Otherwise, God is able to create instruments whereby His Word shall be published broadcast.  If this does not happen today, and if not on the morrow, then on the day after tomorrow.  But the desire is that today the Word may be spread, that our activity shall be beneath this banner and standard, that we shall be the cause of giving forth the summons of God, that we may invite the souls to the Kingdom, that we may be their guides.
Thus, this will be the cause of illumining faces and will win the praise of all the Manifestations of God.  This is our
page 245
hope.  This is the utmost of our desires, and I ask God that He may aid you all, that He may aid me, that together we may be occupied in the service of the Kingdom of God.
This is a very blessed gathering.  It is a source of great joy.  It is a source of great potency in the world.  This very gathering has its effects.  The assemblage here and the fellowship exercised are a magnet attracting the confirmations of God.  Even now the confirmations of God are surrounding such a gathering as this.  Ere long you will see its signs and your joy will reach the superlative degree.


X:13, 4 November 1919
page 245
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Mother Beecher
To the maid-servant of God, Mother Beecher, care of his honour, Mr Roy Wilhelm, New York City, N.Y.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou green leaf of the Tree of Life!
Thy letter was received and from its contents it became known that in the past summer, in Green Acre, a remarkable Bahá'í movement took place, blessed souls gathered in that place such as Mr Remey, Richard Mayer, Harry Randall, Howard Ives, Albert Vail, Harlan Ober, Safá Kinney and Stanwood Cobb.  These souls indeed are firm in the Covenant, are the heralds of the Kingdom of God, promulgating the divine teachings, are self-sacrificing in the path of the Kingdom, are ignited candles and twinkling stars.  At present this is not known; in the future it shall be made evident.
The Pharisees, during the time of Christ, did not consider the Apostles as worth addressing and took them as the lowest of people, although they were the stars of guidance and the lamps of the Supreme Concourse.  But at present consider what has happened!
I hope that this year in Green Acre the candles of supreme guidance will be better enkindled, the melody of the nightingales of Truth may reach the supreme heights and attain the ears of the denizens of the Abhá Kingdom, and this shall be to such an extent that all people may be amazed.  This shall be attained if the friends of God will in the utmost union, love and harmony associate with one another, strive day and night to relieve one another's burden, promulgate the divine teachings and raise so high the call of the oneness of mankind and the melody of universal peace that the world of humanity may be stirred.
As to his highness, President Wilson, the fourteen principles which he has enunciated are mostly found in the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and I therefore hope that he will be confirmed and assisted.  At present it is the dawn of universal peace; my hope is that its morn will fully break, converting the gloom of war, of strife and of wrangling among men into the light of union, of harmony and of affection.
Convey on my behalf to Mrs Champney the utmost love and kindness.  From the bounties of God, I hope that she may become utterly attracted to the Kingdom and become wholly spiritual.  Convey my love and kindness to Mrs Watt.  I beg for her from God assistance and bounty.  Convey to thy grand-daughter, Dorothy Beecher, the utmost kindness on my behalf and extend to Mr Hilgert my warm and heartfelt sentiments; I am greatly pleased with him.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání., Bahjí, Acre, Palestine, 23 July 1919.
page 246
Mary Morrison
To the maid-servant of God, Mary Morrison-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear maid-servant of God!
When I was in Denver I enjoyed greatly the climate, the beauty and the views of that city; and, therefore, I wished that therein the light of the love of God might spread, and hearts might be stirred by lordly sentiments, and the pavilion of the oneness of mankind might be pitched in that city.  I, therefore, encouraged those friends who resided there, and urged them to acquire the perfections of the world of humanity.
At present, praise be to God, the signs of the attraction of hearts by the divine fragrances are manifest.  I rest assured, therefore, that the perfections of mankind may be made resplendent in that city, and human souls may become heavenly angels, may acquire the characteristics of the Merciful; and that thou mayest become the sign of guidance and the cause of the illumination of the hearts of friends.
Upon thee be greetings and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.
page 247
Bahá'ís of the Central States
The friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the Central States of the United States of America, care of Mr Carl Schefer, Chicago, Illinois-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye faithful friends and maid-servants of the Merciful!
Verily, ye are self-sacrificing in the path of the Kingdom and have no wish save the diffusion of Light throughout all regions.  Ye are the real gardeners, are sowing the seeds of guidance in the soil of hearts and assuredly ye shall be confirmed and assisted.  The expert gardener ever reaps rich and plentiful crops, obtains a pure and fertile soil, sows the seed, waters it and always secures heavenly blessings.  Praise be to God, ye are expert gardeners, your soil is the heart, wherein ye sow the seed of the love of God, and water it from the fountain of knowledge.  Ye depend upon the Sun of Truth that its light and heat may develop that blessed plantation, that the breeze of His bounty may waft and the dew of His blessing may fall, thus securing for it luxuriance, freshness and prolific results.  The earthly gardener obtains but one fruitage while the heavenly One with one casting of the seed secures an everlasting result.
From the bounties of God, I supplicate that this Second Convention (for
page 248
Teaching) held in the Central States may exert a great influence, may be assisted by the confirmations and bounties of the Supreme Concourse, and may give forth remarkable results.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 29 July 1919.
Gertrude Buikema
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Gertrude Buikema, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  From its contents it became known that thy eager wish is to serve the Star of the West.  This wish is due to the exaltation of thy nature and is highly praiseworthy, and in the divine Kingdom is accepted and praised.  Verily, Mr Windust has so far exerted a great effort for the arrangement of the Star of the West and I am greatly pleased with him.
At present both of you must, as ye have been doing in the past, endeavour for the arrangement and the publication of the Star of the West.  However, the means of subsistence are necessary for both of you and ye cannot concentrate your time in this matter.  Serve, therefore, as much as it is possible, the Star of the West, and in order to secure the means of livelihood, do not abandon your own occupations.  When the Star of the West will be so widely published as to insure your necessary expenses, then if we abandon your occupation and concentrate upon the Star, it will be preferable.  But at present ye are forced to engage in your occupation that the means of livelihood may be secured.
As I have no time, I have written thee in brief.  Whatever question comes up, submit it to the Editorial Staff Committee for discussion and consideration and then hold to what ye deem advisable and suitable.
page 249
Convey, on my behalf, the utmost love and kindness to his honour Dr Díyá Baghdádí and his honour Mr Windust.
The seven bound volumes of the Star of the West have been received and your labour is indeed worthy of praise.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání; Haifa, Palestine, 29 July 1919.
Albert R. Windust
To his honour Mr Albert R. Windust, Chicago, Illinois-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh
The letters thou hadst written on 1 October and 23 November 1918, were received.  Their contents indicated thy joy at the victory secured by the just government, the safety of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the good tidings of thy health and safety of thy honourable wife and thy three respected daughters.
Thou hadst written that all throughout the days of severed communication ye were engaged in service, were printing and publishing books, while the Star of the West was also published and regularly circulated.  Verily, ye have laboured hard and have not fallen short of your duty.
Indeed, the respected maid-servant of God, Miss Mary Lesch, has been directing affairs with the utmost loyalty, faithfulness, good wishes and endeavour.
Name the book17 which Mr MacNutt is compiling, "The Promulgation of Universal Peace".  As to its introduction, it should be written by Mr MacNutt himself when in heart he is turning toward the Abhá Kingdom, so that he may leave a permanent trace behind him.  Send a copy of it to the Holy Land.
The Star of the West must, at present, be written both in English and Persian.  Miss Gertrude Buikema is indeed serving the Star.  We hope that with his honour Dr Díyá Baghdádí-Upon him be the Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-ye may be both assisted in remarkable services.  Your efforts are evident and well known in the sight of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  I pray God that, under all conditions, ye may be assisted and confirmed.  As to the editorship of the Star of the West, whatever ye deem advisable is accepted by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.
Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí
To his honour, Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, Illinois.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou merciful youth who art the son of that glorious man!
Verily, thy letters have been received.  They indicate thy great love to God, thy attraction to His fragrance, thy attachment to His Kingdom, the establishment of a meeting for the singing of the verses of God, the reading of the Holy Books, the study of the Tablets by the youths of that city, who have sincerely turned their faces to God and became enkindled with the fire of the love of God, abandoned all the conditions that prevent the acquiring of the merciful virtues and the good illumined morals, so that they may love one another and become united in the promulgation of the fragrances of God.  The love of God kept them busy from ought else.  This establishment is a blessed establishment.  I ask God to make this meeting sanctified and holy above the human temperaments, illumined and
page 250
adorned with the outpourings of severance to the Lord of mankind, so that they may become as one bouquet, spiritually and physically in the service of the Cause of God.
As to the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, it is of the most important affairs.  Relaxation therein is not permissible.  Verily, I shall write to the Easts of the earth and to its Wests and urge them to assist the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  Concentrate thou thy thought in the service of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár under all conditions so that thou mayest obtain confirmations and assistance under all conditions and circumstances. ...
As to the translation of the Súriy-i-Haykal, at present we do not find a translator who can give it its merit.  God willing, in the future a committee shall be organized whose members are experts in Arabic, Persian and English.  By that perfect committee, the Súriy-i-Haykal will be translated, but one person cannot arise and give the translation that it deserves.  God willing, this committee will be organized and thou shalt be an important member thereof.
Convey thou on my behalf the utmost mercy and tenderness to Bessie Digget, her mother and her sister.  Convey my abundant greeting to Mr Anderson and his wife.  Verily, I ask God to make them manifestations of His merciful bounties.  Convey my hearty sympathy to Julia Jordan, Emma Marky Appel, and Walter Bohanan.  Verily, I pray God to make them the signs of guidance among the people and the banners of the Supreme Concourse.  Convey my greeting and tenderness to Mr and Mrs Alfred Anderson, Mr and Mrs August Anderson, Mr and Mrs Peter Nelson, Mr and Mrs Henry Bennings, Mr and Mrs Schend, Mrs Hertel, Mr and Mrs Yeager, Mr and Mrs Lindstrom, Mrs Redeen, Mrs Tressa Jacobsen, Mr William Redeen, Mr George Steppy.  Verily, I pray God to guide them in their affairs, to make them attracted to the Kingdom of Abhá, sanctified above self and desire, seeking nothing for themselves save severance to God, delivered from the selfish suggestions in the Cause of their Lord, the Precious, the Exalted!  For, verily, to God is the praise.  They are lamps aflame with the fire of the love of God, majestic trees in the rose-gardens of the knowledge of God.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Dated 24 July 1919, Haifa, Syria.
Contributions collected for the teaching fund must be used for teaching.  Likewise contributions collected for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár must be used for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  These two must not be mixed.
Convey thou on my behalf the fatherly greeting to Katherine Ferguson and say:  "I ask God to confirm and guide your brother and sister of whom you have written in your letter.  Convey thou the utmost respect to Mr Chapman.  Appreciate thou him for he became the cause of thy everlasting life and thou bast become of the people of the Kingdom.  This is thy real father."
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
P.S.-The maid-servant of God, Zynat, is permitted to come.  Be very kind to Háshim Zádih and give him the Message and Bahá'í literature.
Dated at Haifa, 24 September 1919.
Ella Quant
To the maid-servant of God, Ella Quant, New York City, N.Y.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  It was indicative of thy attendance at the Convention where thou hast witnessed the
page 251
lights of the divine teachings resplendent and hast seen the souls vivified by the spirit of everlasting life.  As thou wert endowed with the power of insight, thou hast in this manner discovered Truth.  Whoever is firm in the Covenant and the Testament is today endowed with a seeing eye, and a responsive ear and daily advances in the divine realm until he becomes a heavenly angel.
Convey on my behalf to the two respected souls, Margaret LaGrange and Grace Vosburgh, heartfelt sentiments.  I pray God that they may become the recipients of bounty and the manifestations of limitless favours.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.


X:14, 23 November 1919
page 263
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Ella G. Cooper
(Portion of Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs Ella G. Cooper, San Francisco, California.)
... Four letters have been received from you, the last dated 18 April 1919.  All of them were indicative of firmness in the great Covenant.  Praise be to God, the friends in California are holding fast to the helm of the Almighty and are attracted to the God of Elijah.  Their movement is like unto the attraction of steel which is subjected to magnetic power; their aims are confined to the good pleasure of God and their highest wish centres around the unbounded blessing.  They are engaged in service and are intimately connected with the Holy Spirit. ...
Thou hast referred to the little assembly of Los Angeles.  Although that assembly is small, yet it is kept under the protecting eye of God.  If it prove to be firm and steadfast it shall resist all that is on earth.
Consider how many souls arose after His Holiness Christ and determined to extinguish the Lamp of God.  Even the Roman emperor, who was a most eminent philosopher, exerted the utmost effort in order to resist the sweeping movement; he wrote a refutatory book against His Holiness Christ, published it throughout his empire, and caused a great many to turn away from His Holiness Christ.  But, eventually, the power of the Word of God conquered and broke all imperial resistance.  The resplendent light of the Covenant and Testament of God dissipated the darkness of doubt and suspicion that was entertained by those philosophers and potentates.  It is evident, therefore, as to what will result from these important forces.
At most it is this:  that some feeble and heedless souls will waver in the Cause of God, but ultimately this fire will be quenched.
Refer to the history of the Church and read the details of the activities of Arius, the Patriarch of Alexandria.  Notwithstanding the fact that his followers numbered a million and a half, and the support of the mighty emperor was extended to him, eventually he was completely destroyed and no trace of him whatever remained, and so on and so forth. ...  Undoubtedly, wherever a carcass is to be found, a number of ravens and contemptible dogs gather around that putrefying body, but ere long they shall be scattered in great distress.
 ... Read attentively the translations of his honour Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl's book, The Brilliant Proof; it is very necessary,-and send it then to the spiritual assembly of Los Angeles. ...
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 2 June 1919.
Mary Rabb
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Mary Rabb, care of Mrs Ella Goodall Cooper-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Your letter dated 5 March 1919 was received.  Its contents were conducive to gladness and they indicated firmness and steadfastness in the glorious Covenant.
Today the pulsating power in the arteries of the body of the world is the spirit of the Covenant-the spirit which is the cause of life.  Whosoever is vivified with this spirit the freshness and beauty of life become manifest in him, he is baptized with the Holy Spirit, he is born again, is freed from oppression and tyranny, from heedlessness and inclemency which deaden the spirit, and attains unto everlasting life.
page 264
Praise thou God that thou art firm in the Covenant and the Testament and art turning thy face to the Luminary of the world, His Highness Bahá'u'lláh.  Thou hast illumined thy face with the light of guidance and perfumed thy nostrils with the fragrances of the Abhá paradise.  Strive therefore that thou mayest attract the souls and train them through the divine teachings that they may become the signs of guidance, may turn into blessed trees and may secure a large share from the day of Manifestation.
The teacher is like unto a farmer who sows a seed, the cloud of mercy pours out its showers and every seed multiplies a hundred fold, gives forth a luxuriant harvest and becomes the cause of heavenly benediction.
I hope that thou mayest be confirmed to acquire that heavenly benediction and may become my partner in this lucrative enterprise; that thou mayest grow to become a blessed tree, fruitful, green and rich in foliage and laden with sweet and delicious fruits.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 3 June 1919.
page 265
Bahá'ís of California
To the friends and maid-servants of the Merciful in Los Angeles and the other cities of California, care of Mr and Mrs Beckett-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye friends and maid-servants of the Merciful!
O ye friends and maidservants of the Merciful!  From the Spiritual Assembly of Los Angeles a letter hath been received.  It was indicative of the fact that the blessed souls in California, like unto an immovable mountain, are withstanding the gale of violation, have, like unto blessed trees, been planted in the soil of the Covenant and are most firm and steadfast.  The hope is entertained, therefore, that through the blessings of the Sun of Truth they may daily increase in their firmness and steadfastness.  The tests of every dispensation are in direct proportion to the greatness of the Cause, and as heretofore such a manifest Covenant, written by the Supreme Pen, hath not been entered upon, the tests are proportionately more severe.  These trials cause the feeble souls to waver while those who are firm are not affected.  These agitations of the violators are no more than the foam of the ocean, which is one of its inseparable features; but the ocean of the Covenant shall surge and shall cast ashore the bodies of the dead, for it cannot retain them.  Thus it is seen that the ocean of the Covenant hath surged and surged until it hath thrown out the dead bodies-souls that are deprived of the Spirit of God and are lost in passion and self and are seeking leadership.  This foam of the ocean shall not endure and shall soon disperse and vanish, while the ocean of the Covenant shall eternally surge and roar.18
Consider then that Christ, in order to preserve the unity of Christendom, said to Peter:  "Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church."  This word has secured every one's submissiveness and allegiance and has preserved for a thousand years the unity of the Christian world.  Notwithstanding the fact that this declaration was not, a command to obey and to follow and was verbally delivered, yet it has proved to do away with any foam that might appear on the surface of the ocean of Christ and to cast ashore any dead body that sought the vanities of this world.  At present His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, through His Supreme Pen, has written the Book of the Covenant and has called it the "Book of the Covenant", and has entered with every one into a covenant and a testament.  He first addresses the Aghsáns, then the Afnáns and then the relations bidding
page 266
then to turn their faces to the Centre of the Covenant and has then, in accordance with the explicit text of the Most Holy Book (the Book of Laws [The Kitáb-i-Aqdas]), made the Centre of the Covenant the Expounder of the Book.
From the early days of creation down to the present time, throughout all the divine dispensations, such a firm and explicit Covenant hath not been entered upon.  In view of this fact is it possible for this foam to remain on the surface of the ocean of the Covenant?  No, by God!  The violators are trampling upon their own dignity, are uprooting their own foundations and are proud at being upheld by flatterers who exert a great effort to shake the faith of feeble souls.  But this action of theirs is of no consequence; it is a mirage and not water, foam and not the sea, mist and not a cloud, illusion and not reality.  All this ye shall soon see.
Praise be to God, ye are firm and steadfast; be ye thankful that like unto blessed trees ye are firmly planted in the soil of the Covenant.  It is sure that every firm one will grow, will yield new fruits and will increase daily in freshness and grace.  Reflect upon all the writings of Bahá'u'lláh, whether epistles or prayers, and ye shall surely come across a thousand passages wherein Bahá'u'lláh prays:  'O God!  Bring to naught the violators of the Covenant and defeat the oppressors of the Testament.'  'He who denieth the Covenant and the Testament is rejected by God, and he who remaineth firm and steadfast therein is favoured at the Threshold of Oneness.'  Such sayings and prayers abound, refer to them and ye shall know.
Never be depressed.  The more ye are stirred by violation, the more deepen ye in firmness and steadfastness, and be assured that the divine hosts shall conquer, for they are assured of the victory of the Abhá Kingdom.  Throughout all regions the standard of firmness and steadfastness is upraised and the flag of violation is debased, for only a few weak souls have been led away by the flattery and the specious arguments of the violators who are outwardly with the greatest care exhibiting firmness but inwardly are engaged in agitating souls.  Only a few who are the leaders of those who stir and agitate are outwardly known as violators while the rest, through subtle means, deceive the souls, for outwardly they assert their firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant but when they come across responsive ears they secretly sow the seeds of suspicion.  The case of all of them resembleth the violation of the Covenant by Judas Iscariot and his followers.  Consider:  hath any result or trace remained after them?  Not even a name hath been left by his followers and although a number of Jews sided with him it was as if he had no followers at all.  This Judas Iscariot who was the leader of the apostles betrayed Christ for thirty pieces of silver.  Take heed, O ye people of perception!
At this time these insignificant violators will surely betray the Centre of the Covenant for the large sum which by every subtle means they have begged.  It is now thirty years since Bahá'u'lláh ascended, and in that time these violators have striven with might and main.  What have they achieved?  Under all conditions those who have remained firm in the Covenant have conquered, while the violators have met defeat, disappointment and dejection.  After the ascension of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, no trace of them shall remain.  These souls are ignorant of what will happen and are proud of their own fancies.
In short, O ye friends of God and maidservants of the Merciful!  The hand of divine bounty hath placed upon your heads a jewelled crown, the precious gems of which shall shine eternally over all regions.  Appreciate this bounty, loose your tongues in praise and thanksgiving, and engage in
page 267
the promulgation of the divine teachings, for this is the spirit of life and the means of salvation.19
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 23 July 1919.
Agnes Leo
To the maid-servant of God, Agnes Leo, Spokane, Washington-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  Thou wert complaining of your assembly that it has fallen into disgrace.  Every ailing has its remedy, and every affliction its relief.  The efficacious remedy of this disease with which the assembly has been afflicted lies in meditation and contemplation over the Covenant and Testament.  It should be observed whether the Blessed Beauty has entered into this Covenant and Testament in order to exact obedience from all, or to bring about disobedience.  If the latter is intended, then nothing is to be said, and if obedience and compliance are the objects aimed at, then wavering leads to utter loss, and disobedience and rejection are absolute error.
His Holiness Christ, with reference to Peter, hath uttered one word, and has not personally written anything, and that word is:  "Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church."  Notwithstanding the fact that it was only one word, void of any great importance and has been orally communicated and not written, nor has it been put down by the pen of Christ, yet all the apostles submitted and complied.
Now, the Blessed Beauty has given explicitly through His own writing, and by the stroke of the supreme pen the absolute command of obedience, and of the turning of the face toward the Centre.  It must be either said that, God forbid, the Blessed Beauty was ignorant and has been wrong in commanding that all should obey the Centre of the Covenant or, on the other hand, obedience should be shown, and the face should be turned towards him.  Strange!  What answer will they give to the Blessed Beauty in the divine Kingdom?  This much consideration is enough if justice is considered; and if it is not, and injustice prevails throughout discussions, then it is another question.
In fine, these Covenant-breakers and their disobedience are like unto froth, which does not last, and which shall soon vanish, while the sea itself which is the cause of life, will remain and continue to exist.  Reflect upon the time subsequent to the manifestation of Christ:  How many souls have sown in the Cause of God the seeds of sedition and intrigue but eventually their efforts were doomed to disappointment and failure and Truth hoisted its banner.  This breaking of the Covenant is likewise doomed to failure.  Like unto a mirage, soon it shall vanish and disappear.
Upon thee be greetings and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine; 24 June 1919.
Ernest Walters
His honour, Mr Ernest Walters, Chicago, Illinois-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of God!
Two letters have been received from thee and from the contents of both the turning of thy face toward the Kingdom of God was noted.  Divine bounty has been extended and the blessings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh are complete.  Rest thou assured that thyself and thy mother shall ever be encompassed by divine bounty, but thou must be so firm
page 268
and steadfast in the Covenant and Testament that the violators who may be found at thy meeting may not even draw a breath.
Today the magnet of the confirmations of the divine Kingdom is firmness in the Covenant and the Testament and all else save that is useless talk for by what can Bahá'í unity be preserved?  Can it be preserved through the absurd and useless words of some people?  God forbid.  His Holiness Christ, in order to preserve the unity of Christendom addressed one word to Peter:  "Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church."  This word preserved the unity of Christendom for 800 years although it was communicated only orally.  But on the other hand the Kitáb-i-'Ahd is not an oral communication; it is the mark of the Supreme Pen.  It has been revealed in order to preserve Bahá'í unity, so that the souls may not become agitated and perturbed, may not every day set up for themselves an idol and establish a new centre of authority and seditious men may not agitate.
Glory be unto God!  Notwithstanding this some thoughtless and ambitious persons desire to turn away through their meek language and flattery the souls from the straight path and cause them to wander aimlessly in the wilderness of superstitions.  They have their liberty.  On us it is incumbent to state the truth.  Whosoever desires may accept it, and he who refuses, "Verily, God is independent of all the world."
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 18 July 1919.
Mr and Mrs Scheffler
To their honours, Mr and Mrs Scheffler, Chicago, Illinois-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two firm ones in the Covenant!
Happy are ye that, like unto a blessed tree, ye have struck roots deeply in the soil of the Covenant, and are in the utmost firmness and steadfastness.  If a thousand winds begin to blow, they shall not affect ye and such should be one's firmness and steadfastness.  Otherwise, if by the diffusion of the offensive odour of violation, health is converted into sickness, of what use is existence?  Death and life are alike in that respect.
In short, I pray on your behalf and beg from the divine Kingdom assistance and bounty.  Rest ye assured that ye are confirmed souls.  Convey to all the friends my greeting.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.
Mary Lesch
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Mary Lesch, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received and its contents indicated firmness in the Covenant.  Therefore, the hope is entertained that thou wilt be assisted under all conditions, for today that which is most important is firmness in the Covenant and the Testament and otherwise Bahá'í unity will not be preserved.  If Bahá'í unity could be preserved through something else, undoubtedly the Blessed Beauty would have commanded it.
In accordance with the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, which is the supreme authority and the Kitáb-i-'Ahd which is the last book of the Blessed Beauty written by His supreme pen, all are addressed in a clear and explicit manner.
First he addresses the Aghsáns, then the Afnáns and the relatives and finally the rest of the friends and bids them to turn their faces toward the Centre of the Covenant.  And the verses which have been revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
page 269
ordering all to turn after His Ascension to "Him who is branched from the Pre-Existent Root" are explicitly recorded in the Kitáb-i-'Ahd as having for their object the Centre of the Covenant.  And in another special Tablet the authenticity of which is admitted by every one, it is recorded that if the centre of violation whose proper name he mentions, deviates the least from the shadow of the Cause, he at once loses the station of Branchhood.  How could it be more explicit?  Now it must be either said that the Blessed Beauty has done wrong and has led the people to error for he ordered them to obey a person who ought not to have been obeyed, or on the other hand it must be said that the least deviation from the Covenant and the Testament entails deprivation from the bounties of the Luminary of the world.  One of the two alternatives must be true and there is no third one to it.
In fine, Bahá'í unity cannot be preserved save through the Covenant of God.  Today the stirring power in the body of the world is the Covenant, and if this Covenant is made ineffective, what power will be able to stir it?  The statement which was made orally by His Holiness Christ to Peter-that "thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church"-this declaration preserved for a thousand years Christian unity.  After the lapse of a thousand years, due to political questions, dissensions happened.  Now, if this Word of Christ has preserved the unity of Christendom for a thousand years, consider what will be done by the Kitáb-i-'Ahd which has been revealed by the Supreme Pen.  But superficial, restless souls, who at first were firm in the Covenant and have written epistles with reference to their firmness and detachment from violators and have considered them as outcasts from the Threshold of the Almighty-and these epistles are still extant-these persons like unto Judas Iscariot, have for personal interests and financial motives, deviated from the Covenant.  They followed the people of craft and stained their hands with the blood of Christ.  Be admonished, O ye who possess intelligence!
If at all thou art firm and steadfast in the Covenant, strengthen and fortify thy relationships with the Convention, and from whomsoever thou inhalest the odour of violation, avoid his company and keep aloof, that thou mayest remain safe and protected under the protection of the Covenant, and, like unto a candle, be ignited with the light of steadfastness.
I am kind to all people and do not attack anyone.  I pray on behalf of all that all may gather under His divine protection.  This Covenant and Testament have been entered into by the Blessed Beauty and I have not taken any such part.  Let them answer Him and I have no objection.  My duty is to be kind to everyone; vengeance is reserved for the Blessed Beauty and not for myself.  As I am kind to everyone, I mention only the good characteristics of a person and if a word is written, the intention is the setting forth of truth and the preservation of the religion of God, so that Bahá'í unity may be preserved.  If any persons desire to upset this unity, they are free and let them present their answers to the Blessed Beauty in the Abhá Kingdom, should He address them as follows:
"O ye, my friends!  Have I, through My Supreme Pen and the explicit verses of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas commanded obedience or disobedience?  Have I not ordered the centre of violation to obey and to turn his face (towards Him)?  Why have ye turned away from My manifest and irrefutable Centre?  I have given the command to turn your faces toward Him, how have ye turned away?  Why have ye upset Bahá'í unity?"
What will they answer?
The friends must be very attentive and then whatever they deem advisable,
page 270
they may perform.  I have nothing to impose.  In America, no doubt whatever call is proclaimed, ambitious and thoughtless souls will be found to support it for a time.  Even at Green Acre it has been remarked that one of the inhabitants of Malta was summonsing men to excessive hunger [fasting] and used to receive pay for it.  Notwithstanding this, some souls gathered around him and from hunger they seemed dead yet would pay to that man.
Do not grieve for thy dear brother who has ascended from this mortal world to the eternal realm and do not feel depressed.  That drop has hastened to the limitless ocean and that wandering bird has flown to the shelter and nest of the Supreme Concourse.  Thou shalt find him at the effulgent gathering in the Kingdom of Mysteries.
As to the dream thou didst have that thy brother appeared fully dressed, clothing is the ornament of man and that is the bounty of the Merciful.  As to the bundle he had in hand, it is his benevolent deeds, and his serious look denoted his purpose to make thee realize the following fact:  "Consider to what bounty I have attained!  Praise be to God, that I am safe and well and have on me the garment of piety and carry in my hand the bundle of my deeds.  I am alive and not dead.  Consider closely, I am living and have not passed away.  Be thou attentive."
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.
Mary Hall
To the maid-servant of God, Mary Hall, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear maid-servant of God!
Thy letters were received.  God willing, this time that thou hast turned away from the Theosophists to the Bahá'í faith, thou mayest remain so firm and steadfast that if all the people that dwell on earth should gather to deviate thee a hair's breadth from the path of Bahá'u'lláh, they would fail in their endeavour.  Consider, that in the time of Christ, how much the Pharisees-and those souls who at first believed in Christ and then turned away from Him, such as Judas Iscariot and his companions-scattered the seeds of doubt in the Cause of Christ, in order to shake the faith of the believing souls.  But these doubts and those who originated them are like unto the foam of the ocean, which has been cast ashore by the ever-surging ocean of Christ.  This is because the foam does not last, while the ocean is eternal.
Praise be to God, thy eye has been again illumined, thy ear has responded, thou hast investigated the Truth and hast believed in the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.  I hope that, day by day, the bounties of the Kingdom may constantly encircle thee, thou mayest daily increase in firmness and become the cause of the guidance of other souls.
As to thy presence in the Holy Land, these days it is very difficult, and here the conditions are not yet quite stable.  God willing, when conditions are stabilized and travel is made easier, thou shalt present thyself.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 26 July 1919.
Dr Pauline Barton-Peeke
To the maid-servant of God, Dr Pauline Barton-Peeke, Cleveland, Ohio-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Praise be to God, it was indicative of the utmost firmness and steadfastness.  It behoves
page 271
thee to be the herald of the Covenant and the Testament and to be attracted by the fragrances of the Merciful.  The meeting thou dost hold at thy house pertains to the Kingdom, for the Sun of Reality shines therein.  At the meeting the memory of God is commemorated, the hearts are turned to the divine Kingdom and the eyes are opened to witness the signs of the Merciful.  Continue to hold this meeting and strive daily to fortify its basis and to arrange its sessions.  My hope is that meeting may become in that land the recipient of merciful susceptibilities and the cause of the manifestation of divine illumination and the training of human souls.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 26 July 1919.
Roy Williams
To his honour, Mr Roy Williams, care of his honour Mr Hannen, Washington, D.C.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou firm in the Covenant!
Three consecutive letters have been received from thee.  From their contents it became known that in Cleveland from the murky breaths of the Covenant-breakers the hearts are afflicted and among the friends harmony has decreased.  Praise be to God!  A hundred times it has been foretold that the violators are lying in ambush and by a certain means desire to cause dissension among the friends so that this dissension may end in violation of the Covenant.  Notwithstanding this warning, how is it that the friends have neglected this explicit declaration?
The point at issue is firm, direct and in the utmost brevity.  Either His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh was wise, omniscient and aware of consequences or was ignorant and a sinner.  He entered by His Supreme Pen into such a firm Covenant and Testament with all the Bahá'ís, first with the Aghsáns (branches), Afnáns (twigs) and Múntasibyns (relations) and commanded them to obey and turn toward (him).  By His supreme pen, He has explicitly declared that the object of the following verse of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (the Book of Laws) is the Greatest Branch:
"When the ocean of My presence hath ebbed and the Book of My Revelation is ended, turn your faces toward Him Whom God hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root."20  Its meaning briefly is this:  That after my ascension, it is incumbent upon the Aghsáns, the Afnáns and the Múntasibyns and all the friends of God to turn their faces to him who has branched from the Pre-Existent Root.
He also plainly says in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Book of Laws):  "O people of the world!  When the Mystic Dove will have winged its flight from its Sanctuary of Praise and sought its far-off goal, its hidden habitation, refer ye whatsoever ye understand not in the Book to Him Who hath branched from this mighty Stock."21  Addressing all the people of the world, He says:  When the Dove of Holiness flies away from the orchard of praise to the Most Supreme and Invisible Station-that is, when the Blessed Beauty turns away from the contingent world towards the invisible Realm whatever ye do not understand from the Book refer it to him who has branched from the Pre-Existent Root.  That is, whatever he says that is the actual fact.
And in the Book of the Covenant, He explicitly says that the object of this verse, "Who has branched from the Pre-Existent Root", is the Greatest Branch.  And He commands all the Aghsáns, Afnáns, Múntasibyns and the Bahá'ís to turn toward him.  Now either
page 272
one must say that the Blessed Beauty has made a mistake or He must be obeyed.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has no command to call the people to its obedience save the diffusion of the fragrances of God, the exaltation of His Word, the promulgation of the oneness of the world of humanity, the establishment of universal peace, and so forth, from the Commands of God.  These are divine commands and have nothing to do with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Whoever wishes may accept them and any one who rejects them may do as he pleases.
Now some of the mischief-makers, with many kinds of tricks are seeking leadership and in order to reach this position they instil some doubts among the friends that they may cause differences, and differences may result in drawing a party to themselves.  But the friends of God must be awake and must know that the scattering of these doubts have as their motives personal intentions and the realization of leadership.
Do not break up Bahá'í unity, and this unity cannot be maintained save through faith in the Covenant of God.
In fine, thou hast the desire to travel about that thou mayest spread the fragrances of God.  This is highly suitable.  Assuredly divine confirmations will assist thee and the power of the Covenant and the Testament will secure thee triumph and victory.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 18 July 1919.


X:15, 12 December 1919
page 275
The collective centre
Address by Hooper Harris of New York City, delivered at the Sixth Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Tuesday afternoon, 29 April 1919.
In the great Tablet of Ishráqát, in the Persian meaning, shining forth; in the great Tablet of the shining forth, Bahá'u'lláh says, beginning the Tablet with this expression-"When He purposed to call the new creation into being, He sent forth the Manifest and Luminous Point from the horizon of His Will; it passed through every sign and manifested itself in every form until it reached the zenith ....
"This Point is the focal centre of the circle of Names and marketh the culmination of the manifestations of Letters in the world of creation.  Through it have appeared indications of the impenetrable Mystery, the adorned Symbol, He Who standeth revealed in the Most Great Name ....  And when the Point was joined to the second Letter22 ... it traversed the heavens of exposition and utterance.  Then the eternal Light of God shed its radiance, flared up in the midmost heart of the firmament of testimony and produced two Luminaries."23
"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God."
The Word of God is that luminous point, the desire or the will or the Word of God.  He, therefore, first sends forth His Word, His will, and that will traverses the circle and these two great orbs [luminaries] are produced.  We read in the Old Testament that the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the water and then the creation, took place.  In other words, creation is not out of nothing, as the theologians say.  God has not spoken in our own Scriptures or in any scriptures of creation ex nihilo, that is to say, creation out of nothing.
Creation is a process, is a forming, and the process of the forming is plainly told us if we have the eye to see it in these words of Bahá'u'lláh in the great shining forth.  There we have the point and the circle, the centre and the circumference, and in the point and the circle the centre and the circumference, we have the whole of all there is in the science of mathematics.  In the point we have the symbol of the singleness of God; in the circle we have the symbol of the all-ness of God.  Both the point and the circle are the symbols of eternity because you can extend the point forever and ever in either direction and never reach the end of it; you can subdivide it forever and ever and never reach the end of it.  It is infinite in its minuteness; it is infinite in its greatness.  The circle is the enclosure; it is the horizon, it is the circumference.  You can go around it forever and ever and never get to the end of it.
The point is the symbol of the Occident, the singleness of God; the circle is the symbol of the Orient, the all-ness of God, and not until the point and the circle meet do you have the absolute oneness.  So Bahá'u'lláh has taught us the singleness and the oneness of God, and in the singleness and oneness of God
page 276
we again have the point and the circle, the circle and the circumference.
In the West, every church spire pointing with its sharp point up into the heavens, represents a mathematical idea of God, the one God in heaven in singleness.  In the East every religious temple has a dome, it has the half circle; it represents the eye of God, looking out in every direction and seeing His all-ness.  The symbols, the point and the circle, the symbols of geometry and the symbols of arithmetic are concrete mathematics, yet nothing in themselves.  The one can do nothing alone; the cipher can do nothing alone.  But when you bring the two together, the one and the cipher you have the ten, and in the ten you have the decimal system and in the decimal system you have the principle of mathematics that builds everything; the principle of mathematics which builds your cities, which builds your great bridges, your great works of engineering, your great construction work because the Occident and the Orient have come together.  They have clasped hands.
The point is the symbol of the objective being, the circle is the symbol of the subjective being.  Now we see that even in the description given us in the creation, the earth was without form and void and the Spirit of God moved upon the surface of the waters and there commenced to be a forming, a creating, a drawing in toward a collective centre.  And then in the spiritual sense when God sent forth His prophet, His Manifestation, His Word, for the purpose of a new spiritual creation in this universe, the same principle exactly was followed.  He sent forth the luminous point-as in this great, new wonderful creation of our own day, the Báb-and eighteen others, making nineteen "letters of the living".
If you will study carefully you will find that Jesus the Christ had twelve disciples, men-and there were six women dear to his heart, his faithful servants who, because of the character of the times and the conditions were not outwardly known as disciples, but who were in a spiritual and inner sense just as truly disciples of the blessed Christ as were his twelve men disciples, and so then there were eighteen "letters of the living", and together with Christ, himself the point, made the nineteen; and the one and the nine, ten.  The Báb, the luminous point, passes through these signs or letters.  He has his eighteen "letters of the living", the greatest of all of whom, thank God, was a woman, Qurratu'l-'Ayn, who gave her life for this great Cause in such a manner that Dr Pollock, a western physician present at the time and witnessing her execution, makes the statement, publishes it in writing, that that magnificent, that wonderful woman bore with infinite patience, without a murmur of complaint, with great gladness, a long and torturing death for the sake of the great freedom of woman and of the race.  Eighteen "letters of the living", himself the point, the luminous point, nineteen; one and nine, ten.
And then there were created these great two orbs [luminaries], the great Manifestations of God, the orb of command, the orb of revelation, the orb of manifestation; and the other orb, the Centre of the Covenant.  Two great orbs.  So we have in the outer, physical creation, according to the description, the great collective centre as well as in the spiritual creation the great collective centre.  We have outwardly in this physical universe of ours, the great collective centre the sun.  Around it revolve the planets and everything in the circumference of that enclosure is pulling upon the sun, and the sun in its turn is pulling to it every particle, every smallest atom throughout the solar system.  And so, through this great collective centre, the sun, and through the great law of gravitation-which on the material and the outer plane is the expression of love, because that is the attraction of gravita-
page 277
tion, the affinity of atom for atom, the love of atom for atom-through this great central orb, the sun and the physical expression of love, gravitation, the order of the universe is maintained.
And then, I think you will find in the great book, Seven Valleys, Bahá'u'lláh-long before the scientists knew anything about it-said "Split the atom's heart, and lo!  Within it thou wilt find a sun."24  The scientists came along and have discovered that the atom could be split and they did split it, and at its centre they found a form of electromagnetic energy that they named the electron.  So even the little atom is a world complete in itself, the point and the circle and its point or centre is the electron.  Its circumference is all the rest of it and through the radiant energy at its centre, its world is held together and the order of the integrity of even the little atom is maintained and preserved through this principle of the collective centre.
The great organism we call the macrocosm; man as an individual has been called a microcosm.  What is true of the macrocosm is also of the microcosm because man, as an individual, has also his own universe and at the centre of that universe is a great collective centre.  And in the individual man what is that collective centre?  Bahá'u'lláh says in his The Hidden Words, "... and within thee have I placed the essence of My light.  Be thou content with it and seek naught else ..."25  So that the centre of each individual human being, the centre of the universe of the individual, he calls the essence of the light of God, radiance from God at the centre of the individual human being.  And where does that centre exist?  God has told us that there is a connection between the individual and the soul.
The soul is not in the body like something within a shell but each individual is connected with his soul and his soul is the carrier of the commands of God.  Through the soul the individual receives the light of the inspiration and the knowledge God.  Not merely by their circumferences meeting; they are connected by the meeting of their centres.
When centre is connected with centre then you have a real unity, a real joining.  When only circumference is joined with circumference you merely have an outer contact, which is a very different thing.  So the man or the woman who is truly joined to the great collective centre, God, is joined at that point of connection where the two worlds meet, joined at the place where the soul connects the individual with the great, the eternal, and the universal.
We pass on to the collective centre of the Kingdom of God upon the earth.  You will remember how one day Jesus was walking with his disciples, and he passed the temple, the outer temple of stone, and he said, "You see this temple?  Destroy it and in three days I will build it again," and the writer, the reporter of the words of Jesus, notes that he did not refer to this temple of stone; he referred to the temple of his own body.  Again Jesus said, "Know ye not that the Kingdom of Heaven is amongst you?"  The words do admit of the meaning that the Kingdom of Heaven is "within" you, that is quite true, but that is not the primary meaning of the words.  The primary meaning of the words was that the Kingdom of Heaven is amongst you, and he meant by that that the Word of God in the flesh, walking among men, was the organic law of men, in the midst of them; that He was their king, He was their charter; He was their law, He was the Kingdom of God amongst them.  The commentators point out that he must have meant this because the words are addressed to the Pharisees and the commentators say that it is not likely that in addressing the Pharisees he would have said the Kingdom of Heaven is " within you".
The body of the Manifestation of God upon the earth is the Kingdom of God amongst men, and He is the great col-
page 278
lective centre of the whole human race.  In the Tablet26 ... 'Abdu'l-Bahá gives illustrations of various collective centres.  You will hear these things from his own pen and he says that the collective centre, the real collective centre among men, is the body of the teachings of the Kingdom of God.  What does he mean?  That the teachings of God are not something which are just scattered here and there and everywhere without any system and without any order, but that they have a body and a body means an organism.  You cannot have a body without an organism; a body must have its head, it must have its heart, it must have its lungs, it must have the things that constitute a body.  Now, there are different ideas of what might be considered the body of the teachings of God, the body of the teachings of God on the earth today.
First and foremost, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant, is in himself, in his own personality, the body of the teachings of the Kingdom of God.  Mrs Dreyfus-Barney said to me when I was in 'Akká, "The Master does not pose, there is no posing about the Master."  He is as simple as a little child, so simple that he fools people who do not know who and what he is.  That dear, sweet, wonderful old man, in his own personality, in his own body walking this earth today is the body of the teachings of the Kingdom of God, is the law of the Kingdom of God, is everything that there is in the Kingdom of God embodied and shown forth in a human life, in a human personality.
Now, the Centre of the Covenant of God upon this earth today, the body of the teachings of God upon the earth today, has himself told us that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, the outward physical temple, will one day show forth the most marvellous spiritual results and that all of the activities of the Kingdom are to go forth from the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, the outer physical temple.  He himself has named that outer physical temple as a collective centre for the teachings of God.  He has sent us a great and wonderful Tablet, a Tablet calling for action, a Tablet calling for us to do something, not merely to take his words and to say of them, Beautiful!  Wonderful!  Not merely to enjoy ourselves in a great spiritual feast in the delight of listening to that word and utterance, not merely in the sacred reverence we have for those writings and their embellishment as we have them here in these unveilings, Beautiful, beautiful!  Wonderful, wonderful!  But that is not what the Great Master is calling on us for.  He is calling on us for action.  He is calling on us to do the things that he is asking us to do, telling us how to do, in these great Tablets.
We should respond to the call, we should see the necessity of the collective centre after he himself has told us about it, we should realize that here is the collective centre whose radii extends from that centre to the circumference and that from everywhere throughout that whole circumference every least and little ray, even at the outer edge of the circumference if it is turned toward the centre, will come together in a great meeting and join and know each other in the centre.  It is inevitable, it cannot be avoided.  But the minute you turn your back upon that centre, the minute you say, "I am an individual, I am going to have my own individual way, I don't believe in any collective centre, I think I can do this thing for myself", and you begin to look out toward the horizon, toward the outer rim of the circle and you have your own little way, talking-Oh, how beautifully people can talk, when they should do-talking in the most beautiful and wonderful way, all the time you are getting further and further apart from everyone of these little rays that start from that collective centre.  And we might go on for ever and ever and never come together, because the mathematical principle is con-
page 279
trary to our coming together if we follow that course.  But the very minute that we turn in our tracks, each one of us gets rid of his desire to have his own little particular or individual way, or to exalt himself in any little way, or to think that he amounts to anything-Ah, how could he amount to anything if he only knew in comparison to the great heart of God how little he really is and how big he can become if he finds his reality there in Him, the bigger One!-if he only comes to know that, and to realize that and turns his back to the circumference and his face toward the great Centre of the Covenant, then he is marching from the great outer rim-column after column, you can see them as they come, marching and marching from every point of that circle and from the circumference, each one intent upon his own business, each one doing his own duty, and yet every one of them from every point, gradually, persistently, inevitably, tending to the great union-where he and they are joined in the Centre, and are not merely brought together by contact on the outer circumference.
If this great Congress and Convention does not succeed in bringing us to this realization, that we must obey the call of the Centre of the Covenant, that we must listen with all our hearts and souls to what he has to say about the commands and about the collective centre, then our session will have failed, and who are to do the work?
Thank God for ever and for ever, eternally thank Him, that you shall hear His words in these great Tablets, quoting first the words of Jesus the Christ, "Blessed are the poor for theirs is the Kingdom of God," and then He Himself saying, "Blessed are the nameless and the traceless poor, for they are the leaders of mankind!"27


X:15, 12 December 1919
page 279
The Manifestation of divinity through inspiration
Address by Safá Kinney of Boston, delivered at the Sixth Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Tuesday afternoon, 29 April 1919.
My beloved brother, Hooper Harris, has given you really the first phase, or the first conditions of my topic and in all that I have to say, I want you to consider that as the first part of my few words. ... I have taken for my text this afternoon the Lord's Prayer:  "Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name; Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven," and I wish to present the same thought that Brother Harris has presented from the standpoint of one who is trying.
Everything, everywhere, has a manifestation of some wonderful thought or idea behind it, or lying concealed, shall we say.  If you wander through the fields, if you wander through the rose-gardens, if you pass into the midst of the great forest there you see nature in activity; there you see the wonderful flowers of the field, the daisies, growing, passing through their phases of development and then passing away, and you see the wonderful gardens coming to fruition and fullness, passing into the blossoms and then into the seed, and passing away, leaving the seed behind;
page 286
and if you go into the forest there you hear the rustling of the giant trees, and the wind blowing through their branches to a sighing tune, and you say to yourself, if you are a thoughtful man, "Why, I see all these things, I feel all these things, I smell the beautiful flowers and hear the whispering trees, and I may even break the branches, but whence came they?"  Have you never thought of that?  You must realize that they come from an invisible idea.  In other words, that they are indeed manifestations of some perfection, laying hidden somewhere, and then if you pass away from the forest and away from the flowers and away from the fields, and into the cities, and come into the great cathedral and hear the organ playing and on all sides of you, you see the mighty, massive columns and the vaulted roof, the beautiful statuary, you see another phase of the same thing.  There you see things born of the idea and the brain of men, something more tangible, perhaps, than nature.  You say to yourself, "Oh, how beautiful that statuary is!  Why, it looks so much like someone I knew", as we might say in Boston, like Phillips Brooks, or like Lincoln or a great picture of Washington, or a great statue that resembles some great saint of the past ages in the church; and the mighty organ, which is the idea that embodies forth the mysteries of music, and you say to yourself, "There is the mind of man at work.  What a wonderful idea that artist had, that genius had, that great creator, that great architect had, when he put them forth, and we have these wonderful results to turn to, all manifesting the idea lying hidden and concealed."
And after awhile perhaps we ask ourselves, "Now, which is most real of all these things:  The manifestation of them in the concrete forms that we see before us, or the idea lying behind?"  And in this wonderful age when so many things are transpiring every moment of the time, when you see giant planes flying through the air in such a marvellous way that seems to take you out of yourself, when you put your ear to a little instrument and you hear the voice of a friend you know is thousands of miles away, you are not satisfied with ordinary explanations.  The logic of a simple explanation will not appeal to your soul.  You say, "The mystery of nature is too great; the mystery of the mind is too great.  Where may I go to look for the explanation for all these things"  And the only answer, is the divine prophet of God, a wonderful picture of whom has been portrayed by my beautiful brother, such a valiant warrior of God.  In that collective centre and from that divine point of energy, each of us realize that something may flow, that something may happen, that something may come to the earth, and the next question you will ask of yourself, "Well, when does he come?  I myself, feel that I am a manifestation of myself.  Am I a manifestation of this centre?"  And so we question ourselves.  We go all about, and some people feeling their own importance do say they are this centre and do feel that they are God, but I tell you after they come in contact with the real thing, they begin to forget all about it, because we have every evidence as Bahá'ís that everyone of us, with no exception, fails at some point, except the One who is that collective centre.  In that collective centre we do find perfection, we do find the infallible, but nowhere else.  Praise God that it is so.  How fortunate that we have some standard of knowledge that will give us a realization of the truth and the answer to our question.
But let us go on.  Take that for
page 287
granted then, that there is set up this eternal connection between the individual and the divine centre.  There must be then some further thought on the subject, and in studying over the history of the world which is the only answer to all these great questions, we find that just so often there comes into the world these divine ones, claiming to be that collective centre, not so much by the very proposition, not so much by their saying, "I am this divine centre", but from the result of their work, which is ever the proof.  And so we find that just so often there has come into this world a manifestation from this hidden place, this concealed origin, this divine wisdom, this holocaust which in turn fires you and me, and this is ever the process.  It has ever been so.
The other evening at the wonderful dinner we all attended our beautiful speaker, Dr Guthrie said that there was nothing new in this Bahá'í Revelation, and he said "Praise be to God that this is so."  Well, I praise God that there is something new in this divine Revelation, and I want to simply correct Dr Guthrie and say that he had not found the point of contact.  He was looking on the surface for the new things.  Oh, no, the sunlight is always new.  But we do not look for the sunlight to the sunlight, or in the sunlight for new things, but when the sun strikes the earth in spring we have the new flowers and so the Bahá'í Revelation is to give to the world the new things and the wonderful things that the people who have not become real intrinsic Bahá'ís cannot find.  They cannot find it yet because the sunlight is just glancing on the spiritual world.  Sometimes there will come the divine blossoming of this flower which is coming now.  Then we will have the new things.  Then we will manifest forth the divinity of our inspiration, and that is the point I want to make.
Now, you and I are the strugglers toward the new and wonderful things that will manifest through inspiration.  God gives us the grace and grants us the power to do it.  How can we ever get there?  Just through one magic word, "sacrifice", that is the absolute requirement.  The first great sacrifice, we have been told, is to cut oneself loose from the tales of the past.  Is the past all wrong?  Are the tales of the past all wrong?  No, thank God, they were not all wrong.  They are not today all wrong, but those of us who are to manifest to the world through inspiration can never do it if we are tied to the old, and no matter how true the old may be, no matter how fitting it may be we have got to bare our souls until there is nothing left of self, until all the tales, all the knowledge and all that we have is gone, and then will God send to you and to me a new inspiration.  Then will we manifest and then only, the new, through inspiration.  Indeed, the mind must be fortified, the way must be made clear through the divine Word; there must be no mistake about it, because the mind is not in a condition to be truly inspired yet, but the time will come no doubt when we will not have to be so guarded about the words, in fact our beloved Master said to me one day when I was wandering in his garden and taking pictures, he said to me, in the most comical way-he caught me unawares; I had my coat off, and I was dreadfully ashamed, I did not know why-"Ah," he said, "you take pictures and you steal my house and you steal my grounds and you steal my people, and you take them away with you to America in your camera.  I will send my lawyer after you and I will put you in prison," and then he waited a moment, tapped me on the shoulder, and laughing, said, "All things will pass away, some day my words that I have written down will pass away; but the words that I have written on the tablet of the heart will never pass away."  So you see that is the real meaning of the manifestation of divinity through inspiration, the blessed
page 288
words written on the heart of a true believer by the finger of God.
Oh, the sacrifice that is needed!  Oh, the cutting loose from all things!  Oh, the self-abnegation that you and I must practice!  Oh, the torture of the wounds that we must endure, laughing and joyfully!  Oh, the prayers that we must pray that at the very moment of triumph we may not yield to the Satan and glory in self, to the awful serpent that is always in our garden presenting to us the wonderful feast of the flower of self-indulgence in some way or other!  God grant that we may endure, and God grant that we may ask for calamities and sacrifice so that we may get away from that thing, because in that way alone can you and I manifest divinity through inspiration.
What is inspiration?  What is the manifestation of divinity through inspiration?  I tell you, the finger of God will not write a great story in the mirror that is dulled with the ashes of self.  The light will not shine powerfully through that mirror.  Inspired words are not born forth from such a mouth, and when in the mercy of God everything has been taken away, and we are only left the power to testify to His glory-and perhaps nothing else-then will our souls glory in that we have been given the power for His sake to endure, that this thing might happen.
Oh, brothers and sisters of the Cause, seek, seek, seek, for eternal happiness in that way!  Do not rest a moment and do not forever be asking that your self-satisfaction may be gratified, that you may be put up or put down in some place you may like, but that you may endure, that you may receive.  Because all sacrifices, the sacrifices that these blessed Ones, these glorious Ones, come and make are the greatest of all.  What they have endured!  Why?  Let me mention one thing which is in keeping with our subject.  You and I collectively have the power to make of 'Abdu'l-Bahá the false Christ, we have that power when you and I do not let him write on our hearts and speak through our lips of his power and testify from whence he comes.  But as you and I prove faithful to the truth, as we receive in our hearts the glory of this power, and as we, through faithfulness, on the mount of faithfulness dwell, so will we testify that he is no false Christ, but in our lives prove him to be the return of the Son of God upon earth, who is for you and for me that divine manifestation through inspiration.  "How great, the greatest sacrifice that ere was made for man, when from the heavenly radiant throne the light descends to our dark world-God's perfect plan!"
Again and yet again hath shone
That ray divine, supreme,
God's lowly Messengers have come,
Have sacrificed and have proclaimed
The mighty theme.
It mirrored forth through our Lord Christ
Who left for us this prayer
To pray, that God's blest day would come
When all would be fulfilled, and Love
Reign everywhere.
Now, is the sacrifice complete!
God doth His day enthrone!
The Lamb of God, 'Abdu'l-Bahá,
Hath come! He is our King of Love
And we, his own.
Come forth! from every land appear!
In him are all things well.
Awake! and leave behind aught else
Ye sons of God; He's calling you With him to dwell!
New glories on new glories dawn-
O do not hesitate!
The mystery of love is ours
And for our sake hath come this high,
This vast estate.


X:16, 31 December 1919
page 295
The solution of the economic and industrial problem
Address by Alfred E. Lunt of Boston, delivered at the Seventh Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Tuesday evening, 29 April 1919.
Today from all parts of the world, from every corner and nativity, we hear the moans of the widows, the cries of the fatherless; the anguish of the suffering, the poor and the unfortunate, has arisen to such a degree that the flame of revolution in the social, the industrial and economic fields of humanity is well-high sweeping the whole globe.  We should not dwell in a false security, ignorant of that which is in process.  His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, when in America in 1912, clearly stated these events.  He stated, among other things, that except the great divine remedy which has been brought to humanity today for the purpose of quelling this revolutionary rage shall be exercised, the world will inevitably pass through a condition most perilous, most dangerous, most destructive.  He said one other thing, and he has reiterated this saying so frequently that it seems to me to have a distinct bearing upon this great subject.
You all recall, or many of you recall, his statement concerning the human soul, that it is capable of two flights, one upward towards the very throne of the divine, one downward into the mire and clay of the contingent world.  That mankind, the noblest of the creation, the royal falcon of the skies of heaven, has so besmeared himself with the mire and
page 296
clay of disobedience to God, of selfish purpose, of acquisition of wealth, of isolation from his neighbour, of ignorance of God, that the bird of his soul has become ensnared in this mud of disobedience.  This is the water and clay symbolically expressing the contingent world.
Have you ever thought of the meaning of that really dread term, the contingent world; the contingent world, the world of corruption and generation, the world of composition and decomposition?  The very meaning of the word, contingent is that it is dependent upon something else.  By itself it is non-existent; it is in a constant state of flux; it is the world of darkness and duality.  In the contingent world the law of duality has its full sway.  In the worlds of God, praise be to God, the law of contrast and duality is extinguished.  In the great orb of the sun, if we imagine life there, there is no night, it is always day.  But in this contingent world in which we dwell, duality and the requirements of duality exist; here are the great contrasts of darkness and light, selfishness and love, of life and death.  The great tidal movements in the world are, themselves, dual and contrasted.  How wonderfully Tennyson has expressed this in his poem "Crossing the Bar:"
"But such a tide that moving seems asleep,
Too full for sound or foam,
When that which drew from out the boundless deep
Turns again home."
That tide that drew from out the boundless deep, and thus returns from whence?  From that remote place to which it has hastened in response to the great law of its being, the law of opposites in the world of mortality.  In this world, the soul of man which is drawn from out the boundless deep, from the bosom of God, begins its return journey to Him, if perchance it heeds His call, but in the worlds of God there is only one movement, one return-flow; there is no longer involution as in this world and the lower kingdoms, but conscious evolution towards Him who is the origin and the return.
So the law of the contingent is the law of savagery; it is what has been called by 'Abdu'l-Bahá the rapacious law of nature which holds in its clutch even humanity itself.  Today nine-tenths of our beings, through disobedience to the divine law, have become ensnared in the, claws of nature, and unless the divine power which has entered the world shall lift up this bird of humanity, shall cleanse its wings of the mire and clay so that it may fly in the high atmosphere of devotion and obedience, then only destruction can be looked for for the entire race.  This is the beginning of a cycle when that great mystery of God is being accomplished.  The appearance of Bahá'u'lláh marked the entrance into this world of that divine power through which all mankind may be uplifted.
Among the requirements of the
page 297
contingent world is one which lies at the very seat of economic difficulties.  It is called the law of the "survival of the fittest"; this law is inexorable, it is merciless, it overcomes everything which assumes to stand in its way, it is the car of the Juggernaut, and in its course mankind is as a pygmy.  How well I recall that splendid old professor, N. S. Shaler of Harvard, when he said to us in one of his lectures, as a means of protest or amelioration of the inexorable character of this law of survival which was first mentioned by the great scientist Charles Darwin,-that there is another pre-eminent law in this world of creation, the aesthetic law, the law of beauty, and he gave us this illustration.  He referred to the Irish elk, an extinct animal which ages ago lived in what is now Ireland.  This great animal developed through the natural law of aesthetic beauty the most wonderful antlers.  These antlers developed through the process of the ages until they were the most beautiful antlers of any animal in the world.  They have been found in fossil condition, and it is known that they grew to that degree of beauty and size that the great elk in running through the forests caught his antlers in the high branches of the trees and tore them off.  Thus he became extinct.  The whole species perished by bleeding to death.  This animal became extinct because in the contingent world he found himself in the clutches of the law of destruction, so that we see there is no escape in the animal realm from this; even the law of selective beauty did not save him.  Although its traces appear in this world as a foreshadowing of the reality of the beauty of God, yet it also, encompassed by the dominating power of the natural law of survival of the fittest, became the agency of his destruction.  Likewise there is no escape for mankind if he remain in these clutches.
There is another great law, a great intangible law, called by the economists the law of "supply and demand".  This also is a law of duality, supply and demand, ebb and flow, and in the face of this law, mankind in the industrial sense has been helpless from the dawn of history.  Man has tried for centuries by various measures of legislation and the enactment of statutes to overcome or modify this law, but without any measure of success.
Today, we witness various attempts in the legislatures of the world, especially in this country, to blunt the sharp instrument of that law,-old-age pensions, minimum wage laws, have been devised which it is believed will result in ameliorating the conditions occasioned by the application of this greater law, but they are not adapted to the seriousness of the disease.  The old age pension law is only the faintest trace of the divine remedy which has been given us today for the solution of sociological needs.  It attempts only to take care of persons who have passed, for instance, the age of sixty-five, and these are to be given a mere pittance which in turn is raised by various means from taxation, but it entirely ignores those under this age limit who are likewise subject to vicissitudes.  Consider how often that men and women of thirty, forty, fifty and sixty years find themselves the victims of this pitiless economic law, through no fault of their own, and are deprived of the necessities of life, having to turn to charitable organizations or the almshouses for their food and their shelter.  The widow and fatherless, left without means, find no relief under this law.  The young or middle-aged, upon whom fortune has temporarily frowned, are left without remedy.  How frequently it is that such souls, temporarily tided over the hard places, become sources of economic wealth to their communities and countries.  Is it right that mankind should be subjected to such humiliation and pauperism as this?  The old age pension plan will never care for these universal needs, it
page 298
cannot be acceptable as a complete remedy.
Likewise the minimum wage law.  Originally intended to assist the poorest paid women workers-a very high ideal brought it forth-it was found, in many typical cases, that the moment it was put into operation these needy ones became the victims of the law, wholesale unemployment resulting in factories and in stores.  In my own state of Massachusetts, from the moment the minimum wage decrees went into effect in certain industries, hundreds of girls were discharged by their employers, who said, "If we must pay a high wage, we will see that we get the very most efficient service, and you to whom we have been paying a low wage are not able to earn this, therefore you must go out in the street,"-and when that condition was brought home to some of the advocates of the law, they said, it is true it is inevitable, but, they said "No wages is better than low wages."  Does this sound reasonable?  And yet these are the highest expressions and attempts of American and English legislation to meet this tremendous question which is on the tongues of every one, which is responsible for the risings in Russia, which is responsible for the famine in Europe, which is responsible for the breadlines in New York.
We as Bahá'ís, nay the whole world, have been given a complete and detailed remedy by the heavenly law-giver.  Why, then, do we reach out to the theories and imaginations or the disputes of theorists in Russia or anywhere else?  Their protest is sound.  They need the divine, help.  They need proper legislation.  They need kindness.  They need brotherhood and all the high elements of life, but the remedy they offer and the means they use is the remedy of force and violence, is the remedy, at times, of assassination, is the remedy of ignorance, is the remedy of a class system, simply substituting a class control by a certain part of the workers for the former class control by the Czar and his nobles.  This limited remedy cannot surely be acceptable in this divine plan because 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said, "Force is not acceptable, you cannot obtain these remedies by force," he says.  It must be done through love, it must be done through justice, it must be done through the inclusion of every class, for, as he said to the Socialists, "There must always be the captain of industry, the general, as he called him, the captain, the private, and lieutenant in the body of humanity."
You cannot level mankind.  You cannot equalize mankind in that sense because it is contrary to the inherent creative elements with which man has been endowed by God Himself, the law of variant capacities.  These theories which we are hearing from all quarters are the theories of desperation and of imagination; they are theories which ignore absolutely the law of unity so wonderfully set forth in the Bahá'í teachings, which show that the body of humanity is even as the body of a man.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says, in substance, "The body of humanity is stretched on the bed of severe disease, almost perishing, and only the divine physician can save it."  That is, the diagnosis and prescription of that Holy One alone can raise this patient, desperately ill, into health.
Among the theories of the controlling Russian element today is one ignoring certain classes.  For instance, they say, "We will not have the bourgeois have any part or share in government", yet the bourgeois, as we know them in this country, are frequently the eyes and the ears and the brain, we will say, or some other important function of the body politic, not more important, not more necessary than the other organs, but necessary.  The truest and most divine government is that which co-relates, most closely to the divine type of the composite man, the various functions of that body as represented by the varying capacities of the individuals and groups
page 299
making up its citizenship.  Therefore until they produce a system, a method of adequately meeting the real evils, shall we run after their ideas when God Himself has given us the solution to these industrial and economic problems?
Only the emanations, of the divinity, the love of God, can solve this problem.  Until the hearts of humanity are instilled with that love, until they are transformed, until the bird of humanity is raised from the mud and clay of desire and passion and selfishness, and released from these chains, and from the prison of the contingent world, and flies in the air of the spirit, how can we apply the divine remedy?  In other words, it is transformation, it is metamorphosis, it is resurrection, it is rebirth, which is needed.  And that is the mission and the task of the great Manifestation of this age, and the Centre of His Covenant who is amongst us; and unless we look to that divine plan we have no redress.
If we want to help the people of the world and ourselves and rise from this low, degraded station, let us find the sweet words of life which have flowed from the lips of the mighty Manifestation of God.  He is the skilful physician whose finger is on your pulse and mine, on the pulse of those needy souls in the Bowery, on the pulse of the souls in the palaces.  He is God, and He includes them all, and He has a provision for all, and His provision is this-His provision contemplates an arrangement which will forever prevent pauperism, which will forever prevent the sufferings of the poor, such as we have known and know today, which will forever prevent the continued amassing of cumbersome fortunes on the scale we have witnessed by those who recognize no master but self, in respect to the use that they make of their possessions.
This provision will equalize to a certain degree society, without interfering with the inherent, creative, and individual initiative, which God has implanted at the roots of our beings.  It is not going to be a Socialistic collectivism or communism.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says this is impossible because it would interfere, or attempt to interfere, with the divine law itself, and when you attempt to interfere with the divine law you are overborne, defeated.  Therefore, these remedies of equality, so-called, which do not take into consideration the varying capacities of men, do not succeed.  The divine physician recognizes His handiwork and He calls for the administration of justice to every soul, and the inclusion of all.
Now this divine plan comprises several different aspects.  First, the inheritance law.  No longer shall a wealthy man be able to hand down his entire fortune to his oldest son, creating a family autocracy of enormous wealth, which through the years, or so long as the family resists the process of degeneracy, may constitute a menace to society.  Instead of this, the Bahá'í law provides that every fortune, small and great, shall be distributed equally among the children, and others of kin and groups in certain definite proportions.  In this, also, is contained another important provision which in turn must not be ignored because it relates to the very heart and soul, that of education-that is, for the establishment in every life, in every distribution of fortune, of a definite part to be given to the teachers of the world.  How this will elevate the station of the teacher, which is so crippled today, ill-trained, poorly paid as many of them are, incompetent in many cases.  Under the training of the divine institutes, illumined by the light of the new and wonderful sciences of this new age, the teachers of the world, endowed and protected by this fund, will become the mirrors of heavenly knowledge, and the moulders of character and wisdom.  Then, you will see humanity leap for-
page 300
ward into the arena of mental conquests previously undreamed of, under the guidance of teachers adequately prepared for this greatest of human services.  Such teachers will be informed of the inner life of the child, the realities, of the indwelling spirit which must be brought forth, fostered and made brilliant, inasmuch as these are the divine jewels of each soul.
Next, we have the encouragement of profit-sharing for the worker, i.e., the employee; this provision forms a part of the divine solution.  Wages, as a means of satisfying labour, have proved inadequate.  The wage system has led to strike upon strike, force upon force, violence upon violence.  This is because wages alone, as a means of determining the value of labour, are peculiarly subject to the inexorable economic law of supply and demand, which is a requirement of nature, as we have seen.   There must be an added determinant of value which will draw the worker nearer the centre of common interest which the industry presents both to him and his employer.  This common interest is the welfare and prosperity of the business itself.  If this be done, the outer pressure upon the worker which ever seeks to array him against the employer, by force, if necessary, finds its influence diminished and the appeal to force will be substituted by that persuasion of unity which is the common interest of both.  Until society properly and justly cares for the worker by making him a real partner in enterprise to a certain degree which is just and equitable, entitling him to a share, at the end of the year, of the profits according to the interest he holds, we will never find labour either quiescent, peaceful or contented.
It is certain that wages alone as a means of compensation has led to these constant strikes and lockouts, bitterness and great economic loss; whereas the matter should be dealt with at the fountain head.  The meaning is not to abolish the wage system, but to supplement it.  The bargaining power of enormous aggregations of workers, i.e., trade unions, is at present necessarily invoked to combat a stubborn employer, or one who is himself helpless in the grasp of the economic law of competition with its frequently sharply defined margin of profit.  But this bargaining power of the labour union sometimes openly ignores the justice of the common interest.  In its anxiety to demonstrate its power, unemployment, following the strike, hits hardest at the slender pocketbook of the worker, the unionist, himself.  Its most serious failing, however, lies in its being an instrument of force and compulsion, setting up a similar psychology in the employer.  Shutdowns, and lockouts result, with great financial loss to the ones who can least afford this, the workers themselves.
This mode of settling great industrial conflicts is rejected by the enlightened thought of this new age.  "Not warfare, but perfect welfare," says 'Abdu'l-Bahá, is the aim.  The organs of this industrial body must co-relate and, in sympathetic co-operation, function in the utmost unity.  The eye of man does not see because the liver arises with force to compel.  Rather, under such conditions, the vision becomes impaired and the whole body poisoned.  On the contrary, in the healthy body each assists the other, each draws necessary aid from the other, and each contributes harmoniously to the highest functioning of the other.
Therefore, force and violence are seen to be the handmaids of the contingent world, not the divine agencies of happiness.  The rich and the powerful ones among us must voluntarily and through recognition of this great industrial truth, give a full measure of justice to the noble place of labour freely consenting to a fundamental law which recognizes the industrial body of unity.  For Bahá'u'lláh has exalted labour denoting it even a worship to God, and
page 301
has said to the wealthy ones of earth, "The poor among ye are My trust.  Therefore guard My trust and be not wholly occupied with your own ease."
Next, is the great law of the tithe or income tax.  In this, a new and wonderful principle has been disclosed by Bahá'u'lláh as interpreted by the Centre of the Covenant.  A trust principal, a great trust fund and a beneficiary of that fund has been created by him.  For the first time in the history of the world, a Prophet of God has dealt in a comprehensive way with the economic question, and revealed a law for its solution.  As he says:
"We have heard the midnight sighing of the poor."
His Holiness Christ said:
"Blessed are the poor for theirs shall be the Kingdom of Heaven."
And His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, explaining this, says:
"Blessed are the nameless and traceless poor, for they are the leaders of mankind."
In the Qur'án it is written:
"We desire to bestow our gifts upon those who have become weak on the face of the earth, and make them a nation and the heirs (of spiritual truth)."
This is interpreted by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to mean.
"We wish to grant a favour to the impotent souls and suffer them to become the inheritors of the Messengers and the Prophets."
Thus, it is seen that, in this day of restitution of all things, the divine promises respecting the poor are fulfilled.  The divine justice establishes that which mankind in its selfish absorption, has forgotten.  And this establishment, being inclusive of all classes, preserves the rights of the rich, as well.  Under this law, a portion of the surplus income of every soul must be diverted to this trust fund which will be administered by the wise men of every community, to be put into effect first with the farmer.  Agriculture will receive a great impetus and from this the plan will be extended into the other industrial fields.  For the first time the poor are assured the right to the necessities of life.  Let it be understood clearly that to be entitled to this right, one must not have failed in conscientious effort according to his ability.
"God has provided for all," 'Abdu'l-Bahá tells us.  "His rain showers upon all, His sun shines upon all."  There is ample food for all, there is ample provision in this expanse of earth for everyone for their necessities.  The principle underlying this trust is this,-that every child born into the world has a right to the necessities of life, and this is a Bahá'í principle, praise be to God!
Now, without going into the details of the tithe or income tax, it is sufficient to indicate that it is levied upon the surplus income in a progressive measure; according to the size of one's surplus, one must pay a certain increased proportion.  It still leaves each soul an ample incentive, making his own the true balance of that surplus, to do with as he wishes, protecting his individual rights; it does not aim at private property as some socialist philosophy would advocate, converting the substantial part of all wealth into a collectivism governmentally controlled and owned; but it protects both extremes, protecting the individual even as it protects the common need.  This will result in preventing so called swollen fortunes.  It will be found to be the greatest means of raising up the poor to the place to which they are rightfully entitled, a position of self-respect.  It does away forever with the humiliation of pauperism and assures necessities.  It casts off the industrial shackles, opening the door to comfort and well being.  Can the Kingdom of God find existence while industrial serfdom continues, while humanity made in the image of God dwells in constant fear of becoming the objects of almsgiving, destroying self-respect, ex-
page 302
tinguishing the light of hope, blunting the finer qualities of the soul?
Applying this trust principal, 'Abdu'l-Bahá says that if a man who has not failed in endeavour fails to raise a crop,-we will say he is a farmer-because of the difficulties of the weather or pests, so that he and his family are without means of provision, then that man has a right to go to the storehouse, i.e., the trust fund, in that village and secure the necessities of life.  This is a divine principle.  It may be, of course, and frequently is the case, that through previous savings, accumulated property, or outside income, etc., one whose income in a given year falls below necessary expenditure, is enabled to meet his annual deficit.  My understanding is that the right to necessities from the common storehouse would not accrue to one in this position, since no need arises.
The principle of taxation must be here considered.  If a man has only earned enough to supply the necessities of his family, then no tax shall be levied against him.  Is it just that we levy a tax on a man who earns five hundred dollars a year who needs every cent for the actual necessities of life, and only levy the same degree of tax upon a man whose income is one hundred thousand dollars?  Again, just what is the duty of such a needy one to the community in respect to taxation?  Taxation, briefly, is the charge laid by the sovereign power upon the property of its subjects.  By its essential nature it is an enforced contribution for the support of government and for all public needs.  Under the common law, there was no liability of the public authorities to render aid to the unfortunate class commonly denominated as paupers.  Up to recent times, and the enactment of the Poor Laws, these wretched ones had no recourse from their misery and destitution.  Imprisonment for debt, precarious individual almsgiving, or downright beggary, were their sole guarantees of continued existence.  But statutory enactments in most of the states now require assistance to be given such a man, when applied for and received with a full knowledge of the nature of the charity.  A man may thus become a pauper in the legal sense if he accepts aid from his municipality, even though he is actually providing partial support for his family.  Such a man in that event becomes a pauper.  But the aid given him is not given him as a matter of right, and the price he pays is the pauper cognomen.28
Applying this to the illustration.  Our subject, A___, we will say, has earned just enough for the bare necessities of his family and himself.  Had his income been any less, then he must subject his family to deprivation and consequent suffering, turn to friends for temporary relief, which is usually impossible, or apply to the public authorities.  We have seen the consequences of this latter step.  It is impossible to exaggerate the loss of self-respect, the intensity of anguish and utter humiliation which lays hold upon a human soul-we must consider the average type-obliged even to contemplate this step.
We have already seen that under such deplorable conditions a right is created, under the trust principal stated, which would encircle such a family with its protection.  But these considerations are also important in analyzing the relation to taxation of the man who has broken even in income and necessary expenses.  Suppose A___'s income was of that kind.  He must necessarily deduct, under present conditions, the amount of his tax from his naked necessities.  By this levy the state is not only theoretically but often actually forcing that family across the dead-line into the forsaken abode of pauperism.  Unless new credits can be found, he has no alternative.  Whether or not pauperism results, a deadly blow has been dealt and the psychology of that family has been rudely shaken.  This is the industrial and social serfdom of the age, the cult of the blacksmith
page 303
applied to the delicate mechanism of the human soul.
Now, it is proved that taxes are levied, among other objects, for "all public needs".  Even at present, a portion of the tax levy in the town of B___, we will say, is used in the care of paupers.  This, then, even under the existing laws, is one of the "public needs" for which the taxing power is exercised.  It follows that A___, having been driven another step down the ladder by reason of the enforced contribution of the tax, and compelled thereby to apply for and accept public aid, has to a certain definite extent been proceeding in a circle.  He has to the extent of the tax paid thrown the scales of income and expenditure against him, and now to that extent again he restores the balance by receiving from the community, this time as a pauper, the amount necessary to complete his necessities, which, theoretically, is the exact sum he was taxed.
This, of course, is a technical example, but it illustrates the principle and to a greater or less degree may be found in operation among the masses of humanity.  In this connection, one well known axiom of our English law is that nothing need be done which must, in the nature of things, be immediately reversed.  Merely circuitous action is or should be as absurd and unnecessary in the case of taxation, as in other social adjustments.  A fortiori,29 when, as a consequence, degraded status results.
So the divine justice, whose voice is now heard in the world, is rending asunder our so-called human justice, exposing its weakness, remedying its inequalities.  Pauperism must succumb to the sanction of right.  The beneficiary of a trust possesses something he can claim without humiliation or shame.  That same self-respect, which he thereby retains and fosters, serves a two-fold purpose as his protector against his invoking that right without a sound reason.  To apply this concretely is the crying need of the hour.  The order of the world will be thus promoted, revolutionary, and desperate demands set aside, force and violence seen to be a satanic instrumentality, and the great law of unity and co-operation enthroned in the hearts of rich and poor alike.  The differentiation of capacities in individuals is preserved, fruitless attempts to level humanity to mean averages are rebuked, and the respective functions of the body politic are witnessed as divinely bestowed.  Since it is the function of the eye to see, and any means of impairment of that vision is a menace to the welfare of the whole body, so it is understood that those men and women who, in the community, correspond to that function must be encouraged to fullest activity, not hampered and made ineffective by the jealousy and ignorance of the other branches of the body politic.  Under this law, such men and women become in truth servants of the whole body.  Under this law, they must, and gladly will, render their full measure of obligation to the needs of the needy.  They are themselves equally bound with all others, by the necessities of the trust principal, as outlined.
Similarly, the function or capacity of these individuals corresponding to other organs and parts of the body of the race, must be unimpaired.  There must be freedom also in this.  What restraining force is necessary has been provided for, as has been seen.  Because a given capacity is apparently less brilliant, less compelling than another does not make it inferior or less important.  The skin and the nails, the bones and the joints of society are a part of the body, and without them health is impossible.  Up to now, these and other important functions have been degraded, unjustly oppressed and diseased, whereas in reality they are of the noblest of capacities.  Hence, the present outcry of labour, the anguished protests of the poor.  We must consequently realize that the happiness of each depends upon its full co-
page 304
operation and the recognition of its rights.  The stomach, if called upon to see, would make a miserable failure.  But can the eye perform the Work of digestion?  These are the teachings of unity.
In closing, meditate upon this paragraph from the utterances of His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, on this subject, a most significant utterance given in Montreal, 3 September 1912:
"Although the body politic is one family yet because of lack of harmonious relations some members are comfortable and some in direst misery, some members are satisfied and some are hungry, some members are clothed in most costly garments and some families are in need of food and shelter.  Why?  Because this family lacks the necessary reciprocity and symmetry.  This household is not well arranged.  This household is not living under a perfect law.  All the laws which are legislated do not ensure happiness.  They do not provide comfort.  Therefore a law must be given to this family by means of which all the members of this family will enjoy equal well-being and happiness.
"Is it possible for one member of a family to be subjected to the utmost misery and to abject poverty and for the rest of the family to be comfortable?  It is impossible unless those members of the family be senseless, atrophied, inhospitable, unkind.  Then they would say, 'Though these members do belong to our family-let them alone.  Let us look after ourselves.  Let them die.  So long as I am comfortable, I am honoured, I am happy-this my brother-let him die.  If he be in misery let him remain in misery, so long as I am comfortable.  If he is hungry let him remain so; I am satisfied.  If he is without clothes, so long as I am clothed, let him remain as he is.  If he is shelterless, homeless, so long as I have a home, let him remain in the wilderness.'
"Such utter indifference in the human family is due to lack of control, to lack of a working law, to lack of kindness in its midst.  If kindness had been shown to the members of this family surely all the members thereof would have enjoyed comfort and happiness."30
"The purport is this that we are all inhabiting one globe of earth.  In reality we are one family and each one of us is a member of this family.  We must all be in the greatest happiness and comfort, under a just rule and regulation which is according to the good pleasure of God, thus causing us to be happy, for this life is fleeting.
"If man were to care for himself only he would be nothing but an animal for only the animals are thus egoistic. ...  Nay, rather, man should be willing to accept hardships for himself in order that others may enjoy wealth; he should enjoy trouble for himself that others may enjoy happiness and well-being.  This is the attribute of man.  This is becoming of man.  Otherwise man is not man-he is less than the animal."31
"Man is he who forgets his own interests for the sake of others.  His own comfort he forfeits for the well-being of all. ...  Such a man is the honour of the world of humanity.  Such a man is the glory of the world of mankind.  Such a man is the one who wins eternal bliss.  Such a man is near to the threshold of God.  Such a man is the very manifestation of eternal happiness."32
"We ask God to endow human souls with justice so that they may be fair, and may strive to provide for the comfort of all, that each member of humanity may pass his life in the utmost comfort and welfare.  Then this material world will become the very paradise of the Kingdom, this elemental earth will be in a heavenly state and all the servants of God will live in the utmost joy, happiness and gladness.  We must all strive and concentrate all our thoughts in order that such happiness may accrue to the world of humanity."33
Alláh-u-Abhá!


X:17, 19 January 1920
page 312
News from Haifa, Palestine
Letter from Mrs Corinne True
Cairo, Egypt.
6 November 1919.
To the Editors of the Star of the West:
We spent eleven heavenly days in Haifa with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Two weeks ago this morning (2 November) we reached there after pushing through many difficulties.  None of the countries have recovered from the war.  Travelling is really filled with discomforts, and the innumerable official signatures necessary to enter or leave a country is most annoying.  We were held up for three weeks in Paris getting our British visa to enter Egypt.  Fugeta wrote me from Naples that he was held up indefinitely there for the same reason.  Of course we could not go to 'Abdu'l-Bahá without first going to find out just how Fugeta was situated.  This necessitated our sailing for Egypt via Italy.  We had to leave him in Naples, greatly to our regret, but there was a service we could render him in Cairo by hastening the sending on of his British visa that the consul had cabled for.  We had a beautiful steamer from Brindisi, Italy, to Alexandria, and the trip was lovely in every way.
Let me go back to tell you that in Paris, Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán and his charming wife were adorable to us, and perfect lifesavers.  They were the only two Bahá'ís we could find at that time in Paris, Mr and Mrs Scott having gone to the country on a protracted stay.  The afternoon we were leaving Paris for Italy, Mr Randall and George Latimer came to our hotel to see us, and at six o'clock we had dinner with the five members of their party.  It was so good to see them.
In Brindisi we found Dr Esselmont at our hotel, waiting for his ship.  He sailed in the afternoon and we in the
page 313
morning of the same day, but our ship was the fastest ship we could get to Egypt, and then we proceeded to Haifa by rail.  The railroad in Palestine was built and is run by the military, therefore we required a military permit to ride on it.  Getting this permit required us to come to Cairo, military headquarters.  This also took time, so Edna made good use of every moment for sightseeing, as we did not expect to return to Cairo.  Finally arrangements were perfected for us to take the train Saturday evening at 6.15 and we reached Haifa Sunday morning about 11 o'clock.  It was the most difficult part of the journey, no comforts whatever on the train, only a bunk to wrap oneself in a steamer rug and stretch out for the night.  It was quite thrilling to find oneself riding through that territory which Moses led the children of Israel through in his journey from Egypt to the Promised Land.
Our struggles to attain the goal of reaching Haifa so soon after a world war, in which all the countries we passed through had been vital factors, were indeed great compared to the ease with which Arna and I had made the journey twelve years ago, but this very struggle made the joy of arrival so great that we were almost stunned to find ourselves actually in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and in Haifa.
In one of his talks he has said that it will be impossible for us to realize his fatherhood for us while we are in the body.  I think this is in Divine Philosophy.  Upon reaching Haifa the first thing was an expression of his divine fatherhood for his spiritual children.  He had prepared a pilgrim house for the American Bahá'ís, even hiring a European housemaid (a deaf German woman from their colony).  One must pass through the many struggles of travel through broken down war countries, still tied up with military red tape, to fully realize what the joy was first to actually be in his holy presence again and partake of his fatherly care awaiting our arrival.  His welcome was all the heart needed to wipe away every trace of the struggle, and count every discomfort as the greatest comfort.  Eleven days were spent in that Holy Spot.  Beginning the morning by meeting with the holy family in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's living room at 6.30, where chanting was done and those far-famed cups of tea were served, which seem like veritable draughts of life.  Sometimes we asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá questions and sometimes he talked to us without questions.  Always was that marvellous flow of divine knowledge and wisdom.  We usually went back to the American pilgrim house after chatting with the Greatest Holy Leaf or the Holy Mother or the daughter of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
One of the sweetest things happened early one morning that I must tell you about.  The daughter, Tubá Khánum, her husband, Mírzá Muhsin, and their little child, a boy of three years, were in Beirut when we arrived, but returned in a day or so.  The first morning after their return, when the little three-year-old grandson came into the family gathering, he went to 'Abdu'l-Bahá with the deepest sense of reverence, and picking up the hem of his garment, which was a white 'abá that morning, he kissed it and buried his little head in its folds.  It was a picture never to be forgotten.  The act of the child was clearly spontaneous, one could see.  From the Orient the Occident must learn the real lesson of reverence.  This is a spiritual quality she has to impart to us, while on the other hand the Occident has some qualities to reciprocate-it is give and take-the two embracing as two lovers.
A beautiful part of the day was after we had returned to the pilgrim house and been served a European breakfast, and some piece of work was taken up which we could do on the front balcony.  Seeing us free the Oriental pilgrims would come on this balcony and visit with us, and from them we learned much of the early history of the Cause in Persia, and also the present methods by which it is being spread.  I am bringing
page 314
a photo containing the faces of all the dear pilgrims, and when I see you will talk to you for hours about them.
At 4 o'clock again we went to the holy family for tea and a visit.  Then at 6.30 we American women were permitted to meet with the men believers, who gather every evening with 'Abdu'l-Bahá for an hour.  The evening dinner was one of the most wonderful times.  Seated on his left was Edna, and on his right this servant, and at the table about a dozen of these wonderful Oriental pilgrims, who are mostly the great Bahá'í teachers.  That is another long chapter, but I must close.
Lovingly in His Name,
Corinne True.
page 314
Letter from George Latimer
On board S.S. Canopic.
19 December 1919.
To the Star of the West
After twelve wonderful days at Haifa, on the "Mountain of God" with 'Abdu'l-Bahá our boat arrived three days ahead of time to bring us back to America.  At first the news of its sudden arrival saddened us, but we soon realized that our cup of capacity had already been filled to the brim and our greatest joy was to carry back the love and fragrances of that holy spot to the friends in America.
Now that all the doors of communication have been opened, 'Abdu'l-Bahá is extremely busy welcoming the pilgrims from all parts of the world and sending out his teachings and instructions everywhere.  Often he works many hours into the night correcting Tablets and answering letters.  His power, energy and activity was an inspiration to us all, and his supreme joy is the news of unity and the progress of the Cause.
On 19 November, when he came to the Pilgrim House, prepared for Western friends, to have lunch with us, it was remarked that upon our return to America the first question the friends would ask is:  "When will the Master return to America?"  His face lighted up with a beaming smile as he said
page 315
"We will see what God wants.  If America becomes illumined, its illumination like a magnet, will draw me there.  If America will become the America I want it to become, I will surely come and I will go to all parts, to every state."
These words were still ringing in our ears and hearts when on 27 November, the time of parting came.  Before our departure, 'Abdu'l-Bahá again expressed the greatest longing of his heart, saying:
"You must all do your best to increase love among the friends, that really and sincerely the friends may all love one another-so that faith in the Kingdom may give forth good results, because life in this world depends upon love.  The illumination of the world of man depends upon love, the splendour of God depends upon love, tranquillity of heart and soul both depend upon love.  Any thing beside that is personified imagination.  If a friend arrives from another city or state, friends must show him the utmost love so that he may be pleased with coming to the city and meeting the friends."
Will not this call of the Centre of the Covenant, the call which pulsates through all the arteries of the world of humanity, awaken within us that love and unity of purpose which will become the torch of illumination that will once more attract him to our shores?
With Bahá'í love and greetings,
George Latimer
NOTE:  Those returning from this pilgrimage are Mr and Mrs Randall, their daughter Bahá'íyyih, Albert Vail, Arthur Hathaway and myself.


X:17, 19 January 1920
page 315
"Universal peace is one of the principles of Bahá'u'lláh"
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Hon. William Sulzer
To the Honourable William Sulzer, Ex-Governor, New York-Greetings!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art the well-wisher of humanity-felicitations!
Your epistle concerning the League of Nations has been received and read with great joy.  I am hopeful that the members of the League of Nations, especially President Woodrow Wilson, the well-wisher of the world, shall be confirmed in this, that in accordance with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh there shall soon be established a great tribunal, the members of which shall be composed of the best men and women from all the governments of the earth.  This great tribunal must be the guarantor of universal peace.
The present is the beginning of the dawn of universal peace.  The hope of the world is this:  That the sun of universal peace may rise with a supremacy that shall entirely dispel the darkness of war and its infamous disgrace.
The question of universal peace is one of the principles of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  These teachings have other principles that make them complete, such as:  The oneness of humanity; the investigation of truth and reality and the abandonment of old superstitions; unity and religious amity; that religion must be the cause of concord; that all religions must conform with science and reason; that there must be no religious, racial or national prejudices; that there must be a oneness of language-that is, the adoption of a universal auxiliary language, so that every mind shall know two languages, one the national tongue and the other the universal language; that there must be a solution of social problems and economic questions based on justice to all; that there must be equality of the rights of women and men, that righteousness and justice must prevail, and that
page 316
there must be education and freedom for all the sons and daughters of mother earth.
With the efforts of your President the matter of universal peace has come forth as expounded in the League of Nations.
Through the favour of the True One, and by the Word of God, I pray the League of Nations shall soon become a fact; that universal peace shall thenceforth be established; that then the brotherhood of man shall then be recognized, and that your honour and the people of your country, may continue a manifestation of their confirmation.
Praise be to God!
Love and benediction.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Revealed 18 June 1919, Haifa, Syria.  Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago.


X:17, 19 January 1920
page 316
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Viola Kluge
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Viola Kluge, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou radiant child!
The letter thou hast written in the utmost sweetness has been perused.  It evidenced and indicated thy brilliant capacity, thy wit and thy understanding.  The epistle was clear and consummate and I therefore became hopeful of thee, as thou attainest maturity, thou mayest become a radiant, merciful and Godly maiden, freed and sanctified from the impurities of the world of nature, partaker and participator of the illumination of the divine reality and the cause of the glorification of the world of humanity.
Convey to thy father and thy mother my greetings and my kindness and likewise to thy acquaintances.
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has endured for your sake all these calamities and trials, that the light of guidance may illuminate your hearts.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has passed his days in confinement, in exile and under a drawn sword; not for a single hour did he ever entertain the hope of deliverance until the present time when an equitable government has pitched its tent over these regions.  Now the means of assurance have been provided.  In fine, all my intentions centre around this:  that radiant children may be trained by divine education and become the blazing candles of the world of humanity.
Upon thee and upon thy father and mother be greetings and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine, 1 February 1919.
page 317
Jessie Revell
To the maid-servant of God, Jessie Revell, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy detailed letters were received.  Although the pressure of occupation is extreme and excessive, leaving no time for a short letter and particularly for a detailed one, yet I am affectionately attached to thee.  Notwithstanding the lack of time, I write thee this letter that thou mayest know how dear thou art to me.  As thou art brilliant and pure and hast no wish but to serve the Cause of God and promulgate the divine teachings, I pray and entreat at the threshold of God and beg for thee limitless assistance and bounty.
Convey on my behalf greeting and kindness to Grace van Sciver and Joline Ruestle.  On their behalf, I pray that they may be reared in the arms of the kind father, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and may become the cause of illumination of mankind.
On behalf of Effie Dixon I beg pardon and forgiveness from the compassionate Lord that she may be immersed in the ocean of forgiveness and may become in the Divine Kingdom the recipient of favour and bounty.
Convey on my behalf respectful greeting to Mrs Rorer and say:  "If thou art the lover of mankind, strive to promote the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh for these teachings are the essence of love, of kindness and of the unity of mankind."
Convey on my behalf the utmost love and respect and favour to the favoured and attracted maid-servants of God, Mrs Brittingham and Mrs Nourse.  I beg for them eternal happiness and unbounded glory.
As to thy presence in these days at the Holy Land, it is not in accordance with wisdom.  Thou must engage in those regions, day and night in service.
As to the marriage of the maid-servant of God, Badí'ih, to Laurie Culver, it is a blessed one.  I pray God that this marriage may be eternal, spiritual and merciful.
As to the new name thou hadst requested, let it be "Naerman".
The Assembly of Philadelphia is indeed worthy of praise.  I supplicate from the bounties of God that that assembly may become a heavenly rose-garden and may receive everyday a share from the Lord's Supper.
Thyself and thy sister are striving to learn Spanish; this is highly acceptable, that, God willing, after its acquisition, thou mayest promote heavenly teachings.
As to the appearance of Christ after war and commotion, by this is meant the promulgation of divine teachings, that throughout all regions the teachings of God will be promoted and the result will be universal peace.  For universal peace is unachievable save through the power of the Word of God.
Convey on my behalf to the maidservant of God, Ruth Lerman, the utmost kindness and say:  "How fortunate thou wert that this supreme glad-tiding hast attained thine ears and thou hast been awakened by the call of the divine Kingdom."
Convey to thy respected mother my greeting and say to her to strive with heart and mind in order to cause the coloured group to enter the Kingdom, to illumine their hearts, to help them to acquire heavenly characteristics and to cause them to attain unto everlasting glory.
As to your residence in Philadelphia or Ohio, wherever the means of comfort are forthcoming therein reside.
Impart to the maid-servant of God, Ethel, the glad-tiding of the divine bestowals.  I pray that Mr Elliott, Miss Brooks, Miss Thompson, Mr Ellwood and his wife may illumine their sight with the resplendent light that shines from the Kingdom of Abhá.
page 318
The two gatherings which ye had held in Philadelphia wherein the friends of God have been present as well as newcomers to the Cause, these two meetings are highly acceptable in the divine Kingdom and have been praised and extolled.  The hope is entertained that advantageous results may be derived, that is to say, whenever a favourable occasion presents itself, such meetings may be again held.
As to the children with whom thou are speaking, thy pure breath will undoubtedly exert its influence upon them.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 16 July 1919.
Maria Rebecca Robertson
To the maid-servant of God, Maria Rebecca Robertson, New York City-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Formerly I have met thee and have given thee certain admonitions with the utmost kindness.  Undoubtedly thou bearest them in mind.  At present, moreover, I am writing thee an answer.  Consider how kind I am that I desire thee to become related to the Kingdom, lordly, merciful, illumined and one of the heavenly angels.  Such are my admonitions.  Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 16 July 1919.
Edgar Waite
To his honour, Mr Edgar Waite, Los Angeles, California-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art turning thy face to the divine Kingdom!
Thy respected wife has written a letter and has praised thy character and thy conduct; thou hast become lordly, illumined, attracted to the Kingdom, hast secured a share and portion from the breaths of the Holy Spirit, hast attained unto everlasting life, and hast been gladdened and filled with joy.  She has also sent the poem which she composed in praise of the Convention.  Verily, the verses were in the utmost eloquence and sweetness, and were the cause of the gladness of their hearers.  I hope that through the bounties of God
page 319
both of you may pass your days in the utmost joy and fragrance and become the cause of the promulgation of the divine teachings.
Convey on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to thy respected wife my wonderful Abhá greetings, and say:  "The kindness, the training and the education extended to prisoners is an exceedingly important matter.  As thou hast therefore exerted an effort along that line and hast awakened some of them, and hast been the cause of the turning of their faces to the divine Kingdom, this praiseworthy deed is highly acceptable.  Persevere assuredly along this line.  Convey on my behalf to the two prisoners at San Quentin the utmost kindness, and tell them, "That prison in the sight of the wise souls is the school of training and development.  Ye must strive with heart and soul that ye may become famous in character and knowledge."
Upon thee and upon them be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 18 July 1919.
Ollie James Watts
J. E. GILLIGAN
To their honours, Messrs Ollie James Watts and J. E. Gilligan, through Mrs Louise R. Waite, Los Angeles, California-Upon them be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two servants of the Kingdom!
Your letter was received.  It was conducive evidence that, praise be to God, ye have been freed from the darkness of superstitions, have attained to the centre of Truth, have been emancipated from the old imitations that indicate antiquity of the world, and are investigating Truth.  This undoubtedly is due to the bounty of God and is indicative of the lordly bestowals.
Consider how the people of the world are immersed in a sea of imitations, they lack perception and hold fast to what they hear.  Although they have been immersed for thousands of years in the ocean of superstitions and have acquired no results, yet they are still sleeping.
Praise be to God, therefore, that your inner sight has been opened, that ye have discovered the Truth, and have attained unto that which is the cause of heavenly glory and everlasting life.
Upon you be greeting and praise
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 18 July 1919.
Ruth Klos
To the maid-servant of God, Ruth Klos, Atchison, Kansas-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou seeker of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast written that "I am not worthy."  Who is worthier than thee?  Hadst thou not been worthy, thou wouldst not have turned to God and wouldst not have wished to enter the Kingdom.
Thy worthiness has guided thee until this blessing and bounty have encompassed thee.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 25 July 1919.
Peter Maus
To his honour, Mr Peter Maus, Helena, Montana-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou faithful servant of God!
Thy letter diffused a musk-scented perfume-the perfume of the flowers and fragrant herbs of the love of God.  The nostrils were perfumed and the heart was gladdened, that, praise be to God, that firm and steadfast soul has become the cause of the illumination of two other ones and has led them to the
page 320
fountain of life, that each of them may, in the divine orchard, become a fruitful tree, may cast an extensive shade and may extend their branches and leaves to the divine Kingdom.  I pray God that both may be illumined, assisted and confirmed.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.
Emily Olsen
To the maid-servant of God, Emily Olsen, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou pure leaf of the Blessed Tree!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast written thou hadst translated some epistles and Tablets into Danish and sent them to Europe during the war.  So far nothing has been heard of them.  As war was going on, answer from Europe was delayed.  But now as war has given way to peace it is hoped that the translation of these Tablets and epistles may be disseminated throughout Denmark.
As to the teachings thou hast arranged for children, God willing, they will be enforced.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.
James Morton
To his honour, Mr James Morton, New York City, N.Y.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dignified personage!
Thy letter was received.  Its terms were most eloquent and its significances in the utmost perfection.  Praise be to God, thou hast harkened to the call of the Kingdom, hast secured a share and portion of the divine teachings, hast been freed from the world of imitations, hast investigated Truth and hast comprehended the mysteries of heavenly books.  At present thy wish is to become the cause of the illumination of the world of mankind, to promulgate the principle of universal peace, to awake the slumbering and to cause the heedless to become heedful; so that they may be freed from ignorant prejudices, may secure rest and comfort under the shade of the pavilion of the oneness of mankind, may partake of divine bestowals and may become the centre of merciful susceptibilities.  There is no purpose higher than this.  My hope is that thou mayest be confirmed therein.
Thou art thinking of travelling to Persia.  The project is a blessed one.  I hope that after visiting the Holy Land thou mayest be confirmed in that voyage.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.
Racine Assembly
The members of the Bahá'í Assembly, Racine, Wisconsin, care of his honour, Mr Andrew Nelson-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O illumined Assemblage!
Praise be to God, that ye have been confirmed in establishing that Assembly and that your aim centres around the promulgation of universal peace, the establishment of the oneness of mankind and the investigation of Truth.
I pray to God that heavenly assistance may encompass that Assembly, that it may daily progress so that it may become the centre of merciful susceptibilities and radiate all around the rays of supreme guidance.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.


X:18, 7 February 1920
page 323
The Resurrection of Christ after "three days"
Instructions from a letter written many years ago by Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl on the meaning of the "three days" Christ is said to have lain in the grave before His resurrection.  Selected and condensed by Marie A. Watson.
Concerning the resurrection of His Holiness Christ after three days and nights:  The term "day" is applied to many meanings; the first is the ordinary one of twenty-four hours.  According to this meaning 'Abdu'l-Bahá explains the "three days" before Christ's resurrection thus:
After the ascension, departure of Christ, on account of the tyranny of the Jews, for three days and nights His blessed Name was not mentioned among the disciples.  The wicked Jews were sure that they had uprooted that blessed tree, and the disciples of His Holiness repaired to solitude and seclusion through fear.  Thus the Sun of Truth was outwardly concealed in the darkness of disappearance, and Peter, the apostle, who was the shining moon in the heaven of divine Religion, was veiled, depressed.
After three days and nights Mary Magdalene, whose valour, courage, perseverance and efforts caused her name to be written in the book of perpetual honour, for she gave her utmost energy, called each one of the disciples from the places of concealment and led them into the presence of Peter.  She called forth a new spirit within them through the heat of her encouragement and explanation.  Then again they arose to assist and serve the Cause of Christ, revivified and spread the name of His Holiness in the world, which name was considered by the Jews to be concealed in the grave of disappearance.
According to this explanation the meaning is in the utmost exaltation and in the highest simplicity and plainness, and it is true to say that His Holiness Christ arose from the grave after three days, for the purpose of His manifestation was the spread of His holy Name and penetration of His Word throughout the world, and this point was realized three days after His departure, for by the rising of His noble disciples the lights of His brilliant Cause shone forth through the East and the West, and His blessed Name was promulgated in the extensive parts of Europe, Asia and Africa.
The second application of the word "day" denotes the duration of a spiritual leadership, or individual reign; as it is said, the "day" of the reign of David, the "day" of the reign of Solomon.  This duration is determined by the term "day", though it lasted forty years; or, as is said in America, the "day" of the presidency of Washington or McKinley, and the like, although the presidency of each lasted some years.
According to this standard, the "day" of each one of the Manifestations of God signifies the interval of the time between His rise and the appearance of a subsequent Manifestation-a second coming, or rising of the Sun of Truth.  During this interval the laws, regulations and ordinances of that Manifestation continue effective and lead to the development and salvation of men.  According to the terminology of the proph-
page 324
ets this day has a daytime and a night-time.  Its daytime signifies the days during which the Sun of Truth is manifest among people and with whose meeting is identical with the meeting of God, and can be attained while in the body of flesh.  Its night-time means the duration of the time in which the Sun of Truth is hidden in the veils of concealment, and the Manifestation of God in human form is absent from among nations, and has ascended to the supreme horizon.
According to this meaning, if it be said that the "day" of Moses was the interval of the time between His rise in Egypt and the appearance of His Holiness Christ in the Holy Land, it is true.  During this time the laws enacted in the Pentateuch were effective in securing the glory and felicity of the Jews, providing they complied with those laws.  But after the appearance of Christ, nay, even after the arising of John the Baptist, this manifest efficacy was removed from the Mosaic laws, which led to the effacement of the felicity of the Jews.
Consider the 16th and 17th verses of the 9th chapter of Matthew, and the 11th, 12th and 13th verses of the 11th chapter of the same book for further elucidation of this subtle point and you will realize how the mysteries of the seals of the book are opened in this Manifestation of the Lord of Lords.
According to the standard of the term "day", the time between the appearance of Christ and the rising of the ideal Sun from the horizon of the East was 622 years; consequently, this number denotes the real "day" of His Holiness Christ, during which the laws revealed in the Gospels continued effective.  In multiplying the 622 by three the result is 1,866.  This shows clearly the mystery of the hidden point concerning the meaning of the three days.  For in the year AD 1866, which corresponds to AH 1283, the mention of the declaration of the most holy Beauty of Abhá in the city of Adrianople, was spread through different lands; the divine call was raised, and then the real meaning of the second descending of the Spirit of God from the heaven of divine command became manifest and realized.  In those very days of the blessed person of the orb of the horizons, the Centre of the Covenant, His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá-May the life of all the creatures be a sacrifice to Him!-was in His verdancy of age, and in the prime of youth, and His blessed Name was spread in the world with the titles, "The most great Branch" and "The most excellent and perfect Mystery of God".  Then the meanings of the words in the 8th and 9th verses of the 3rd chapter of Zechariah and the 12th and 13th verses of the 6th chapter became fulfilled and evident.
Accordingly, the essence of the meaning of the resurrection after "three days" is this:  that after the lapse of three periods of 622 years, which was the time of the manifestations of the lights of Christianity, the most great Spirit of God resurrected in the Name of Bahá'u'lláh from among the slumbering nations and the dead of the world, and the beauty of the Branch extended from that Ancient Root dawned forth and appeared in that day.  By this "resurrection" the prophecies of the prophets and saints were all fulfilled.
As to the third meaning of "day", in the terminology of the Jewish doctors, each "day" is applied to a year.  This application is termed by the Jewish learned men Youm Leshan in Hebrew, that is, "a day for a year".  Most of the Christian scholars have also relied upon this application in their commentaries on the Old and New Testaments.  They have derived this point from the 34th verse of the 14th chapter of Numbers and 6th verse of the 4th chapter of Ezekiel.  Most of the Christian scholars and all the Jewish learned men have based their interpretations of
page 325
the symbolical dates in the 8th and 12th chapter in Daniel and the 11th and 12th chapter in Revelation upon this point, that is, have taken each day for a year.  But this meaning has nothing to do with the "resurrection after three days" spoken of by His Holiness Christ.
As the fourth meaning of the word "day", it is applied to one thousand years, and is called the "Lordly Day".  This point is alluded to in the 8th verse of the 3rd chapter of the Second Epistle of Peter the Apostle.
It is clearly revealed in some of the holy books thus:  "Verily, one day with the Lord is as a thousand years of those which ye compute."  To this application the Millennium of Christ spoken of in Revelation has reference; for the spiritually minded believe that in every one thousand years the world is renewed and the Sun of Truth dawns.  The laws, cycles and conditions, even languages, undergo a manifest change.  This application of the word "day" has likewise no connection with the resurrection of Christ after "three days".


X:18, 7 February 1920
page 329
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Alfred E. Lunt
To his honour, Mr Alfred Lunt, Boston, Massachusetts-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Rest thou assured in the bounty of the Merciful, and be hopeful for the blessings of the Abhá Kingdom, for thou dost exert the utmost effort in service for Truth and this magnet attracts assistance and confirmation.  The addresses thou hast delivered with reference to economic problems are highly suitable.  The essence of the Bahá'í economic teachings is this, that immense riches far beyond what is necessary should not be accumulated.  For instance, the well-known Morgan, who possessed a sum of three hundred mil-
page 330
lions, and was day and night restless and agitated, did not partake of the divine bestowals save a little broth.  This wealth was for him a vicissitude and not the cause of comfort.
He invited me to his library and to his home, that I might visit the former and have dinner at his house.  I went to the library in order to look at the Oriental books, but did not go to his house, and did not accept his invitation.  In short, he eagerly desired that I should visit him in the library but meanwhile important financial problems arose which prevented him from being present, and thus he was deprived of this bounty.  Now, had he not such an excessive amount of wealth, he might have been able to present himself.
As to the events that had been predicted-Praise be to God!-all of them have come to pass, and all that had been the explicit and irrefutable declarations of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, and had been incorporated in the addresses of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America and Europe, all of them, word by word, have been fulfilled.  These explicit declarations of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh were revealed fifty years ago by the Supreme Pen, and at present they have been made evident and manifest.
At present, thou hast a lofty aspiration, and hast the desire to engage in every service.  My hope is, that through a heavenly power, and a Lordly influence, and by the assistance of the Holy Spirit thou mayst be confirmed in distinguished services-a service which thou dost think advisable and its success assured.
Thou hadst inquired that if a person owned a piece of land and is not able to develop it, and his revenues are less than his expenditures, is it permissible that he sell a portion of that land and mortgage it?  Undoubtedly, it is permissible.  Concerning the case of profit-sharing by the employers among the workers, which thou hadst written about, undoubtedly the workers must secure their daily salary, and in addition, must have shares with the employers so that they may engage with the utmost effort in that work.  For example, a capitalist has a thousand employees, he must give them a moderate salary every day, that they may not remain hungry and naked, and also assign a definite share of the profit to the workers so that at the beginning of each year it may be distributed among them, that this may cause the workers to exert the utmost care and effort in their job.
Embrace on my behalf thy sweet children, and name the son Husayn, for it is a portion of the name of the Blessed Beauty, and call the daughter Zohreh.  The letter thou hast written to the Boston paper is highly pleasing and favourable.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.


X:18, 7 February 1920
page 336
Spiritual communication
A Talk with 'Abdu'l-Bahá by Mrs Stannard
Notes sent by Mrs J. Stannard to Mrs Louise R. Waite
I asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá concerning the state of all those young men souls who have fallen so suddenly and tragically during our world war.  Could they affect our present living conditions in any way?
His reply ran as follows:  "God treats these people with His mercy, not with His justice, since God is against war.  But as many did not will the war, but were obliged to go to the battle field by force of circumstances, therefore God has mercy for they suffered much and they lost their lives.  These deserve the forgiveness of God.  As they suffered in the world and were afflicted by great calamities and their blood was shed and in reality they were treated unjustly and thus died unwillingly, therefore God will have mercy and forgive their shortcomings and will reward them.  He will compensate them for loss.  Is it just to be so afflicted and killed and suffer and have no reward?  This is contrary to the Kingdom of God.  We supplicate God that these murdered ones will become and stay alive in His Kingdom and be submerged in the sea of His mercy and be happy."
I then asked whether such a great collective soul consciousness could in any way affect the world of men.  Could any get into communication?
To the first part of the question he answered:  "No.  They have no power to influence the world of men and only those who in life had been among the spiritually regenerated ones, those who had been re-born or baptized of the Holy Spirit, only such souls could consciously communicate or have knowledge of things in this world."
When I asked about the station of the very wicked, he said:
"They are in a state of dark consciousness, deprived of the mercy of God, but were not annihilated."
From Shoghi's Diary, on the same subject, we may read as follows:
"6 June.  Yesterday afternoon, at 3 p.m., two enlightened officers, one British and the other Irish, Col. Cash and Major Fitzgerald, called on the Master.  They were hurrying back on their way to Egypt and were leaving by the evening train for Kantarah.  They managed to spare two hours in order to secure an interview with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and among the questions was the following:
"Is it at all possible for those who have sacrificed their lives so freely on the battle field to communicate with their relatives and kindred from the world beyond?"
The epitome of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's reply was as follows:
This spiritual communication and mutual exchange of thoughts is conditioned upon certain facts that prepare the person in this world to communicate with the spirit of his departed ones.  A clear mind, a pure heart and a concentrated attention are the requisites for that spiritual inter-communication.  Like unto a mirror, man's heart and mind must be purified, clarified and polished.  Any dust or rust that may be on it such as attachment to this nether world, the turning of man's face away from God, sin or lust, animosity and rancour-all these must be removed that the rays of the Sun of Truth may shine upon it in full splendour and may be reflected therefrom with full effulgence.  If such state or condition is attained, communication with the world above will be made possible.  Purity of purpose and concentration with prayer are the essential requisites.


X:19, 2 March 1920
page 339
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Mr and Mrs Beckett
To their honours, Mr and Mrs Beckett, Glendale, California-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two faithful and assured souls!
The letter was received.  Praise be to God, it imparted good tidings.  California is ready for the promulgation of the Teachings of God.  My hope is that ye may strive with heart and soul that the sweet scent may perfume the nostrils.34
Miss Anna Greig, Mrs Alice Blackman, Mrs Katherine Tizzard and Dr Ruth Newland were blessed souls and, praise be to God, they passed away firm and steadfast.  They flew away from a narrow and gloomy world to a spacious and illumined realm.  They have been freed from every pain and affliction and have attained unto everlasting joy and gladness.
Convey on my behalf to Mrs Chase respectful greetings and say:  'Mr Chase is a twinkling star above the horizon of Truth, but at present it is still behind the clouds; soon these shall be dispersed and the radiance of that star shall illumine the state of California.  Appreciate thou this bounty that thou hast been his wife and companion in life.'
Every year on the anniversary of the ascension35 of that blessed soul the friends must visit his tomb on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and in the utmost lowliness and humility should with all respect lay on his grave wreaths of flowers and spend all the day in quiet prayer, while turning their faces toward the Kingdom of Signs and mentioning and praising the attributes of that illustrious person.36
Those souls who during the war have served the poor and have been in the
page 340
Red Cross Mission work, their services are accepted at the Kingdom of God and are the cause of their everlasting life.  Convey to them this glad-tidings.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 23 July 1919.
Mrs Rasmussen
Through the maid-servant of God, Mrs Ella G. Cooper-Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Rasmussen-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!
Although the loss of a son is indeed heart-breaking and beyond the limits of human endurance, yet the heedful and observing person is assured that the son has not been lost but, instead, has stepped from this world into another, and he will find him in the Divine Realm.  That meeting shall be eternal, whereas in this world separation is inevitable, and this in its turn entails its consuming fire.
Praise be unto God, thou hast faith, are turning thy face toward the everlasting Kingdom and believing in the existence of a heavenly world.  Therefore, be thou not disconsolate, do not languish, do not sigh, and refrain from wailing and bemoaning; for agitation and moaning deeply affect his soul in the divine realm.  That beloved child addresses thee from the hidden world, thus:  "O thou kind mother!  Thank divine Providence that I have been freed from the narrow and gloomy cage and, like unto the birds of the meadows, have soared to the divine world:-a world spacious, illumined, and ever gay and jubilant.  Therefore, lament not, O mother, and be not grieved; I am not of the lost ones and have not been exterminated and destroyed.  I have shaken off the mortal form and have raised the banner in this spiritual world.  Following this separation is everlasting association.  Thou shalt find me in the heaven of the Lord, immersed in an ocean of light."
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá?
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 8 January 1919.
page 341
Edna Bellora Belmont
Through the maid-servant of God, Mrs Parsons, Washington, D.C.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-to the maid-servant of God, Edna Bellora (Belmont)-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art tested with calamities and ordeals!
Verily, I became exceedingly saddened for thy sadness, because of the affliction with a calamity which thou art unable to bear.  This is the condition of the world.  Therefore, be thou not distressed, neither be in despair of the mercy of God, because in this suffering there is a great wisdom concealed from thee.  Thou shalt learn of this wisdom when thou wilt look at their faces (the departed children) in the everlasting Kingdom.  Then rest thou assured that, verily, thou hast not lost them and their death was only the departure from the restrictions of the nether world to the Supreme Heights.  Thou shalt see their faces in the sublime heavens, for the Merciful Gardener, if He loves a young tree, takes it out from among the others and carries it from the restrictions of narrowness to a large farm and a beautiful, flourishing garden, in order that the young tree may develop, its branches grow high, its flowers open, its fruits appear and its shadow expand.  But the rest of the trees do not know this, because this is a hidden mystery which becomes unfolded to us in the eternal Kingdom.
O thou maid-servant of God!  Grieve not and do not lament, consolation will come to thee from God.  Have thou serene patience for therein is an abundant recompense.  Think not that the girls have waded in the waters of death, nay, rather, they have flown from the mortal world to the realm immortal.  Thou shalt behold their faces in the Supreme Aviary.
In regard to thy particular question:  Whereas, the revered Mrs Parsons desires that thou remainest with her as her companion, therefore, this is easier for thee than to be a nurse enduring great hardships.  Nevertheless, the good is in that which thou choosest for thyself; should the revered lady come to these regions thou mayest accompany her on the journey, so that thou mayest be honoured by visiting the blessed and white spot and we see thee patient in calamity and thankful in difficulties and sufferings.  It behoveth one like unto thee to thank thy Lord while thou art submerged in the seas of anguish.  This is the quality of every maid-servant who is meek and humble before God, and is desirous of the eternal life in the Kingdom of God.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, Illinois, 11 July 1919.  Revealed 21 May 1919.
page 342
Mr and Mrs Gift
To their honour, Mr and Mrs Gift, Peoria, Illinois-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two guiding souls!
Your letter was received.  It was indicative of your being devoted in the path of the Kingdom and of your detachment and self-effacement.  Ye have no wish save the good pleasure of God, and entertain no hope except in divine Providence.  Ye strive for the guidance of souls and become the cause of the illumination of hearts.  This is a supreme bounty.  Arise in gratitude to it for its consequences and advantages are innumerable.  From among these is the establishment of one's remembrance and the attainment unto supreme bounty in the Abhá Kingdom.
Convey on my behalf to the souls that have been attracted by the divine teachings, Mrs _____ Miss _____ Mr _____ and Mrs _____, greeting, love and kindness.
Extend my greeting to Mrs _____ and say:  "Be not grieved, be not disconsolate, be not depressed and do not lament, for this world is a mortal abode and we shall all be transferred from this world to another.  Thy dear daughter is accepted at the Threshold of the Almighty, is immersed in the ocean of pardon and forgiveness and is drowned in a sea of light in the world of mysteries."
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 26 July 1919.
Flora Clark
To the maid-servant of God, Flora Clark, care of the maid-servant of God, Mrs True-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  From its contents prayer and supplication to the Kingdom of God were noted.  No matter how strenuously man may strive in this world, ultimately no result will be attained.  Naked has he stepped into this world and naked shall he get out of it-except if he turns unto God, supplicates to His Kingdom, strives in His path, serves the Almighty and acquires a pure heart, a seeing eye, a responsive ear and a spirit that is gladdened by the glad-tidings of God.  This has a result and gives forth good fruit.
Otherwise man shall not gather any advantage from life.
Praise thou God, that thou hast been confirmed by such a bounty and hast attained unto heavenly illumination.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Effendi, Haifa, Palestine, 13 October 1919.


X:19, 2 March 1920
page 342
Obituary
page 343
Mrs A. M. Bryant
...
The Centre of the Covenant placed upon her head a glorious crown in the following short Tablet received by her in 1901:
To the maid-servant of God Mrs A. M. Bryant-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art attracted by the fragrance of God!
Beloved art thou, for thou hast lighted the lamp of the love of God in the glass of America, called out in His Name among the people, and guided them to the Kingdom of Abhá.
O maid-servant of God!  Fly away with joy, for God hath strengthened thee in this great gift, which is a glorious crown, the gems of which are scintillating with the light of guidance.  Blessed is thy head, for it is decorated with this crown.  Verily, this is better for thee than the dominion of the word.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated at Chicago, by Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán, 24 December 1901.
page 350
Sanford Kinney
...
Extract from recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Charles Mason Remey:
"I have been greatly affected by the death of Mr Sandy Kinney.  What a lovely child he was.  On my behalf tell Mr and Mrs Kinney:  'Do not grieve and do not lament.  That tender and lovely shrub has been transferred from this world to the rose garden of the Kingdom, and that longing dove has flown to the divine nest.  That candle has been extinguished in this nether world that it may be rekindled in the Supreme Concourse.  Ye shall assuredly meet him face to face in the world of mysteries at the Assemblage of Light.'"
__________
Recent Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá for 'Abdu'l-'Alí Sanford Kinney after his departure:
For 'Abdu'l-'Alí Sanford Kinney-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O Thou divine Providence!
Sanford was a child of the Kingdom and, like unto a tender shrub, was in the utmost freshness and grace in the Abhá Paradise.  He has ascended to the world of the Kingdom, that in the everlasting rose-garden he may grow and thrive on the banks of the river of Everlasting Life and may blossom and attain fruition.
O Thou divine Providence!  Rear him by the outpouring of the cloud of mercy and nourish him through the heat of the sun of pardon and of forgiveness.  Stir him by the breeze of bounty and bestow patience and forbearance upon his kind father and mother, that they may not deplore his separation, and may rest assured in meeting their son in the everlasting kingdom.  Thou art the Forgiver and the Compassionate!
(Signed)  'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 23 November 1919.  Brought by Mrs Wm. H. Randall to Safá and Vafá Kinney.


X:19, 2 March 1920
page 344
Editorial-psychic forces
...
The following is a copy of a Tablet written by 'Abdu'l-Bahá on "Psychic Forces":
"To tamper with the psychic forces while in this world interferes with the condition of the soul in the world to come.  These forces are real, but are not be active upon this plane.
"The child in the womb has its eyes, ears, hands, feet, etc., but these powers are not in activity.  The whole purpose of the womb life is the coming forth into this world.  So the whole purpose of this matrix world life is the coming forth into the world of Reality, where all these forces will be active.  They belong to that world."
I don't think anything could be clearer than that.
Anna Mason Hoar


XI:1, 21 March 1920
page 4
Twelve basic Bahá'í principles
Compiled from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
These twelve basic Bahá'í principles were laid down by Bahá'u'lláh over sixty years ago and are to be found in his published writings of that time.
1.	The oneness of the world of humanity
2.	Independent investigation of truth
3.	The foundation of all religions is one
4.	Religion must be the cause of unity
5.	Religion must he in accord with science and reason
6.	Equality between men and women
7.	Prejudice of all kinds must be forgotten
8.	Universal peace
9.	Universal education
10.	Solution of the economic problem
11.	A universal language
12.	An international tribunal
1.  The oneness of the world of humanity
Bahá'u'lláh addresses to the world of man saying, "Ye are all the leaves of one tree and the fruits of one arbour."  That is, the world of existence is no other than one tree, and the nations or peoples are like unto the different branches or limbs thereof, and human individuals are similar to the fruits and blossoms thereof ... while in all past religious books and epistles, the world of humanity has been divided into two parts:  one called the "people of the Book", or the "pure tree", and the other, the "evil tree".  One-half of the people of the world were looked upon as belonging to the faithful, and the other as belonging to the irreligious and the infidel; one-half of the people were consigned to the mercy of the Creator, and the other half were considered as objects of the wrath of their Maker.  But Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed the oneness of the world of humanity-he submerged all mankind in the sea of divine generosity.
2.  Independent investigation of truth
No man should follow blindly his ancestors and forefathers.  Nay, each must see with his own eyes, hear with his own ears, and investigate truth in order that he may find the Truth; whereas the religion of forefathers and ancestors is based upon blind imitation-man should investigate the truth.
3.  The foundation of all religions is one
The foundation underlying all the divine precept is one reality.  It must needs he reality, and reality is one, not multiple.  Therefore the foundation of the divine religions is one.  But we can see that certain forms have come in, certain imitations of forms and ceremonials have crept in.  They are heretical, they are accidental, because they differ; hence they cause differences among religions.  But if we set aside these imitations and seek the reality of the foundation we shall all agree, because religion is one and not multiple.
4.  Religion must be the cause of unity among mankind
Every religion is the greatest divine effulgence, the cause of life amongst men, the cause of the honour of humanity, and is productive of life everlasting amongst humankind.  Religion is not for enmity or hatred.  It is not for tyranny or injustice.  If religion be the cause of enmity and rancour, if it should prove the cause of alienating men, assuredly non-religion would he better.  For religion and the teachings which appertain to it are a course of treatment.  What is the object of any course of treatment?  It is cure and beating.  But if the outcome of a course of treatment should be productive of mere diagnosis and discussion of symptoms, the abolition of it is evidently preferable.  In this sense, abandoning religion would he a step toward unity.
5.  Religion must be in accord with science and reason
Religion must be reasonable; it must agree perfectly with science, so that science shall sanction religion and religion sanction science.  The two must be brought together indissolubly, in reality.  Down to the present day it has been customary for men to accept a thing because it was called religion, even though it were not in accord with human reason.
page 5
6.  Equality between men and women
This is peculiar to the teaching of Bahá'u'lláh, for all former religious systems placed men above women.  Daughters and sons must follow the same form of study and the same education.  Having one course of education promotes unity among mankind.
7.  Abandonment of all prejudices
It is established that all the prophets of God have come to unite the children of men and not to disperse them, and to put in action the law of love and not enmity.  Consequently we must throw aside all these prejudices-the racial prejudice, the patriotic prejudice, the religious and political prejudices.  We must become the cause of unity of the human race.
8.  Universal peace
All men and nations shall make peace.  There shall he universal peace amongst governments, universal peace amongst religions, universal peace amongst races, universal peace amongst the denizens of all religions.  Today in the world of humanity the most important matter in the question of universal peace.  The realization of principle is the crying need of the time.
9.  Universal education
All mankind should partake of both knowledge and education, and this partaking of knowledge and of education is one of the necessities of religion.  The education of each child is obligatory.  If there are no parents, the community must look after the child.
10.  Solution of the economic question
No religious books of the past prophets speak of the economic question, while this problem has been thoroughly solved in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Certain regulations are revealed which insure the welfare and well being of all humanity.  Just as the rich man enjoys his rest and his pleasures surrounded by luxuries, the poor man must likewise have a home, be provided with sustenance, and not be in want.  Until this is effected happiness is impossible.  All are equal in the estimation of God; their rights are one and there is no distinction for any soul; all are protected beneath the justice of God.
11.  A universal language
A universal language shall be adopted which shall be taught by all the schools and academics of the world.  A committee appointed by national bodies shall select a suitable language to be used as a means of international communication, and that language shall be taught in all the schools of the world in order that everyone shall need but two languages, his national tongue and the universal language.  All will acquire the international language.
12.  An international tribunal
A universal tribunal under the power of God, under the protection of all men, shall be established.  Each one must obey the decisions of this tribunal, in order to arrange the difficulties of every nation.
About fifty years ago Bahá'u'lláh commanded the people to establish universal peace and summoned all the nations to the "divine banquet of international arbitration" so that the questions of boundaries, of national honour and property and of vital interests between nations might he decided by an arbitral court of justice.
Remember, these precepts were given more than half a century ago.  At that moment no one spoke of universal peace, nor of any of these principles; but Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed them to all the sovereigns of the world.  They are the spirit of this age, the light of this age; they are the well being of this age.
The Bahá'í Revelation is the spirit of this age.  It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century.  The Bahá'í Cause is an inclusive movement:  the teachings of all religions and societies are found here.  Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, Zoroastrians, Theosophists, Freemasons, Spiritualists, et al., find their highest aims in this Cause.  Socialists and Philosophers find their theories fully developed in this Revelation.
The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is the same as the Cause of Christ.  It is the same temple and the same foundation.  In the coming of Christ the divine teachings were given in accordance with the infancy of the human race.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh have the same basic principles, but are according to the stage of the maturity of the world and the requirements of this illumined age.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


XI:1, 21 March 1920
page 9
Bahá'í-A Revelation of the spring-time of God
From The Progressive Thinker, 10 May 1919.
Albert Vail
Bahá'í is but another word for spring-time-the spring-time of God upon this earth-world.  The Bahá'í Gospel is the proclamation of a new age, a new cycle of spiritual realization and universal brotherhood now breaking upon our consciousness.  The signs of the coming of this springtime appeared over sixty years ago in Persia, that home of ancient seers and mighty inspiration.  There the great Bahá'í teacher, Bahá'u'lláh, was born in the town of Núr, which being interpreted means "the city of Light".  He was a prince of the royal Persian family, a prince of earth, but when the inspiration of the spiritual world poured its glory through his pen, his face, his pure and selfless life, he became the prince of spiritual, of heavenly revelation.
The Persian government and the priests, the church and the vested interests could not tolerate his universal and progressive teachings, and, although "the common people heard him gladly", perhaps because the common people came to him by the thousands to be taught the wonderful new truths which would free them from oppression and ignorance, the rulers of Persia drove him with his family and a little band of followers from prison to prison, and at last, discovering what they believed to be the most pestilential and wretched spot on the earth, they carried Bahá'u'lláh to the town of 'Akká, Palestine, and there chained him to the stone floor of a tower cell.  They could not believe that there was any power in heaven or earth strong enough to survive such conditions as they there imposed upon him.
But Bahá'u'lláh, triumphant and glorious, in a little cell, wrote volumes of Tablets with tempestuous eloquence sustained by a mighty flood of divine inspiration from the unseen oceans of light.  From this prison, fifty years ago, he wrote letters, called Tablets, summoning the kings of the world to a League of Nations, the law of mutual disarmament and to universal peace.
He wrote in 1868 to Louis Napoleon predicting his overthrow, and telling him that because of his injustice an enemy would come upon him from over the Rhine, would defeat him in battle, and Louis Napoleon would lose his throne.  This prophecy was fulfilled to the letter in the Franco-Prussian war.
In that tortuous prison cell of 'Akká the doors of the divine and unseen spheres were wide open before the pure spiritual vision of Bahá'u'lláh.  Wondrous beings from the highest heavens visited him in garments of light.  He describes it thus:  "The gales of the All-Knowing, the All-Glorious, passed by me and taught me the knowledge of what hath been and is and is to be.  I have not studied these sciences which men possess, nor have I entered the col-
page 10
leges.  This (Bahá'u'lláh) is a leaf which the breezes of the will of thy Lord the Mighty, the Extolled, have stirred.  Can it be still when the rushing winds blow?  Verily, I was not save as one dead in the presence of His command, the hand of thy Lord, the Merciful, turning me."  The inspiration was so rapid, perfect, glorious, that sometimes he wrote in a night a book of a hundred or two hundred pages, each sentence as beautiful as though infinite pains had been spent upon its literary perfection.
In 1873 he wrote to the Emperor of Germany:  "Remember!  Where is he who was greater than thou and of more honour and dignity (Napoleon III), and where are his possessions?  Awake, and be not of those who sleep.  Consider his condition and remember those who in past times subdued the countries and governed the people.  Verily, God hath made them descend from palaces to graves."  "O banks of the River Rhine!  We have seen ye drenched in gore, because the swords of retribution were drawn against ye; and ye shall have another trouble.  And we hear the lamentation of Berlin, though it be today in manifest glory."
For the next fifty years Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá foretold the coming of the great universal war, when a spark left over from the Balkans would ignite the arsenals of all Europe and would produce the greatest conflagration in human history.  In fact, Bahá'u'lláh prophesied one long succession of historical events.  He also foretold, nineteen years before it came to pass in 1892, the year of his ascension into the heavenly world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, his son and successor in spiritual guidance and servitude to the new cycle, possesses the same marvellous gifts.  Continually Bahá'u'lláh has sent him messages from the unseen world, and also a perfect glory of spiritual light which has made him celebrated through western Asia for knowledge and divine illumination.  Scholars and sages of many sects and religion have journeyed to his prison door to hear his wonderful inspiration and his forecasts of the new world-order of universal brotherhood, spiritual illumination and the most great peace.
When the prison doors of 'Akká were opened in 1908 by the revolution of the Young Turks, 'Abdu'l-Bahá came forth from fifty-four years of prison and exile.  His face was furrowed with the lines of humanity's sorrows, yet radiant with universal love; his hair and beard were silver white, but his step majestic and rhythmic with the vigour of eternal youth; his voice was melodious with the melody of the heavenly worlds where his spirit had dwelt in glory.  When he visited Europe and America in 1911 and 1912, his message was found to be so modern, so prophetic of the new age, so brilliantly stated, so luminous with the Holy Spirit, that he was immediately asked to speak in the great City Temple, London, and at St. John's Westminster, and in a long succession of churches, synagogues, peace societies, universities, meetings for progressive religion.  For three years he travelled, giving public addresses and receiving hundreds of callers daily.  In all his addresses he proclaimed the foundation principles of the new Jerusalem, the universal city of God which he and his father, Bahá'u'lláh had, with their pure spiritual vision, seen descending from the heavens of light into this world of confusion, a glorious Sun of Truth with healing on its wings for all the nations and also light to flood the world with new knowledge, new physical and heavenly sciences, a new hope, a new love, a new and holy power.
"Praise be to God," says 'Abdu'l-Bahá in a letter to the Asiatic Quarterly of London, England, "that the Sun of Reality has shone forth with the utmost brilliancy from the eastern horizon.  The regions of the world are flooded with its glorious light.  There are many rays to this Sun:
page 11
"The first ray is heavenly teachings.
"The second ray is the oneness of the world of humanity.
"The third ray is the establishment of universal peace.
"The fourth ray is the investigation of reality.
"The fifth ray is the promulgation of universal fellowship.
"The sixth ray is the inculcation of divine love through the power of religion.
"The seventh ray is the conformity of religion with science and reason.
"The eighth ray is the abandonment of religious, racial, patriotic and political prejudices.
"The ninth ray is the universal spread of education.
"The tenth ray is the organization of the arbitral court of justice, or Parliament of Man, before the members of which all the international and inter-governmental problems are arbitrated.
"The eleventh ray is the equality of the sexes-the giving of the same educational facilities to women as to men, so that they may become adorned with all the virtues of humanity.
"The twelfth ray is the solution of all the economic problems of the world so that each individual member of humanity may enjoy the utmost comfort and well-being.
"The thirteenth ray is the spread of an auxiliary world language.
"Just as the rays of the phenomenal sun are infinite, likewise the rays of the Sun of Reality are infinite.  The above summary only contains a few of its rays.
"The spreading of these rays will deliver the world of humanity from the darkness of ignorance, strangeness and narrowness, and will guide it to the centre of all these rays.  Then the foundation of warfare and strife, animosity and hatred, will be destroyed from amongst the people, and the misunderstandings existing among the religions will be dispelled.  The foundation of the religions of God is one and that is the oneness of the world of humanity."
When some of us met 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America, and beheld the brightness of the spiritual light in his face, felt the glorious vibration of divine power from his presence which swept the room, heard him answer questions on economics, politics, physics, history, philosophy, we felt his heart and mind were a veritable fountain of light.  He talked with chemists about chemistry, with electricians about electrical engineering, with Elbert Hubbard about the American poets, with politicians about politics, with little children about their games, all with matchless ease.  But he always threw the material knowledge into the divine light, turned it all toward the service of humanity, the pressing call for social and spiritual reconstruction to meet the new and diviner age.
Moreover, he is in his own life a manifestation of the full-orbed light of the new day.  He not only reflects its pure, perfected knowledge in words and addresses clear as crystal, universal as humanity, luminous with the knowledge of earth and the diviner planes beyond our seeing; he lives his gospel in a life of marvellous perfection, pure love and triumphant joy.  For years he slept on the damp, earth-covered floor of a cellar room.  His food was of the poorest.  Yet every morning when he awoke he praised God that another day was before him.  Every night when he went to sleep he thanked God he had been permitted to serve Him another day in prison.  "I was in prison for forty years," he said, with a smile bright as heaven's own light, "but every day was a day of perfect joy."  His body was in prison, but his spirit traversed the glorious worlds of God.  As Bahá'u'lláh says of the great masters, the "Mirrors of Unity", "While walking among the servants, they soar in the skies of Nearness.  They journey in the land of spirit without motion of foot, and fly
page 12
upward to the summit of oneness without wing.  In every moment they traverse the world of creation east and west, and in every moment pass through the kingdom of the seen and the unseen."
Behind 'Abdu'l-Bahá's words shines this divine experience, this exalted consciousness, this resplendent joy, this heroic will and a love which will often melt a heart of stone.  For twenty-four years, when he was in the prison city of 'Akká, a fanatical Muslim fakir cursed, persecuted, reviled him.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá poured out upon him love and kindness, sent him a physician when he was ill, food when he was too poor to buy for himself.  But the man always refused to speak to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and showered upon him his fanatical curses and abuse.  The love of "the Master of 'Akká" never varied in its divine sweetness and holy power.  At last the fakir came to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's door, threw himself at his feet, and said:  "Forgive me, Sir!  For twenty-four years I have done evil to you.  For twenty-four years you have done good to me.  Now I know I have been in the wrong."
It is this love and victorious spiritual power shining through the spoken and written words of both Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá which makes them so powerful in transforming hearts and minds.  Through their writings and spiritual radiance thousands of lives have been raised from the graves of materialism and prejudice and selfishness into the glorious consciousness of God's new day.  Through their words they put one into connection with their spirit, which is simply the life of God shining from the mirrors of their minds with the full-orbed glory of the new cycle.  This new light shining from their spirits has lifted a multitude of Muslims, Christians, Jews, Pársís, Buddhists, Hindus, of many lands and races, into the open plains of the most universal spiritual brotherhood the world has ever seen.  It has so endowed these many souls with heroic love and the spiritual vision which looks through martyrdom into the heavenly glory beyond the transparent screen called death, that twenty thousand men, women and children have joyously laid down their lives for this great and universal movement toward religious rebirth, world unity and peace.
In a word, the Bahá'í movement is a proclamation of the principles of the spiritual springtime soon to sweep over the earth.  "The Bahá'í Movement is the spirit of the age.  It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century.  The Bahá'í Cause is an inclusive movement; the teachings of all religions and societies are found here.  Christians; Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, Zoroastrians, Theosophists, Freemasons, Spiritualists, et al., find their highest aims in this Cause."
The Bahá'í Movement is transforming and uniting peoples of so many races and religions because it states these universal principles in universal terms and reinforces them by the lives of great masters who not only proclaim the truth but are "the life, the truth, the way".  "Guidance hath ever been by words, but at this time it is by deeds."  "The truth of words is tested by deeds and dependent upon life.  Deeds reveal the station of a man." (The Hidden Words of Bahá'u'lláh.)
The Bahá'í Cause is a new tree of life growing in the orchard of the old, very old trees of the historic world-religions.  These trees were once young and beautiful, and they yielded heavenly fruits.  Now a new tree, vital, glorious in spiritual perfection, "with world-wide growing capacity", is the need of the hour.  The Bahá'ís believe that in the universal teachings and spirit of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá they have found that tree of life whose leaves shall be for the healing of the nations.


XI:1, 21 March 1920
page 14
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár
The first erected on Mt. Carmel, Palestine; the second in 'Ishqábád, Russia,
and the one to be built in Chicago, USA.
Two excerpts referring to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár to be built in Chicago.
Through his honour, Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán, and the maid-servant of God, Mrs Helen S. Goodall, to Miss Angeline Haste, San Francisco, California.
O thou lover of truth!
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!  The two stars thou didst behold were wonderful signs, for they were shining above Lake Michigan; and now the ground for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is located there.  This was a spiritual revelation and those two stars were two heavenly orbs which were manifested to thy eyes, indicating that the Bahá'í luminary will dawn above Lake Michigan, which will illumine all parts.  This means that the power of God shall find a wonderful penetration and by the rays of the kingdom enlighten all directions. ...
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 22 November 1909.
__________
The following extract is contained in a compilation of incidents and short sayings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, sent out by Mrs Henrietta Clark Wagner, in 1912:
"Miss Boylan said that while in Thonon (Switzerland), last summer, she asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá about the work of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, feeling that it was extremely necessary to push this work and get the Temple built as rapidly as possible, and that he must come to build it, in fulfilment of the prophecy that the Lord would come to rebuild the Temple which had been torn down.
"Miss Boylan said 'Abdu'l-Bahá re-
page 15
plied that he had fulfilled that prophecy by building the Tomb of the Báb.  He said the Tomb of the Báb on Mount Carmel was the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, and that Temple is already built.  The one in 'Ishqábád is a radiation from that first one.  The one in Chicago will be another radiation.  In future there will be many all over the world, all radiating from the central Mashriqu'l-Adhkár."
__________
From Shoghi Rabbání's Diary, 8 June 1919.
The eternal edifice of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, of 'Ishqábád, Russia, its perfection, its importance and its unique role was the sole absorbing theme of our conversation and the subject of our thoughts.
This imposing monument is nearing perfection, its dome, large and brilliant, looms from afar.  The Greatest Name, carved in gold and in large conspicuous characters, reflects the rays of the sun; while all of its accessories have been provided and many of its branches, such as schools for girls, orphanage, reception rooms, and hospital are nearing completion.  Its nine attractive gardens completely encircle the Temple, intercepted by nine spacious walks and having each at their central portion a magnificent fountain with beautiful jets of water that add much to the beauty and charm of the place.  Electric lights flash amid the trees that cover with their extended branches these fountains and in such a cool and lovely place the friends gather and offer to Almighty God their prayers and their praise.  Although the public park in that city is wide and imposing, yet comparatively speaking, it is forlorn and forsaken-the attraction and charm of the gardens encircling the Temple by far surpassing the beauty of the park.
Not a visitor, not a passer-by, not a resident comes to that city without visiting this matchless spot, none without expressing his admiration and astonishment at such an exceptional set of buildings, so strongly built, so magnificently designed, and so richly provided.  Many have made the following remark:  "He who erected this edifice and laid the foundation of such a monument is assuredly divine."
Often it is the case that the construction of the Temple, its lovely gardens, its completeness and thoroughness in material, intellectual and spiritual equipments, the character of its occupants and owners, their hospitality, their fervour and their conduct-often these awaken the minds of the people and attract them to the Cause.
Such was the description given by Áqá Mírzá Mihdí as he with the friends in 'Akká gathered this afternoon around 'Abdu'l-Bahá, at the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh for the Sunday afternoon visit.
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá inquired the condition and the association of the friends, it was intimated that unlike the days gone by the friends are intimately associating with all the people of every shade and opinion, of every sect, and social standing.  He said:  "Such is the way that must be adopted, for only through intimate association will the friends be able to teach and sow a seed in the heart of a seeker.  The flower must be brought close and near in order to inhale its scent and fragrance."
Then referring to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The Temple of 'Ishqábád is unique in that it is the first temple of the kind that has been erected.  Many such temples shall be constructed in the future, but this one will ever enjoy this unique privilege and preference.  When its accessories are completed and its full machinery starts running, when the melody of vocal and instrumental music arises and bursts upon the air with its joyous trends, when the prayers and supplications addressed at dawn and at sunrise ascend to the Throne of the Almighty, then will the effect of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár be made
page 19
evident and manifest.  The Temple that is going to be erected in the United States will be an important and magnificent one, its influence and reaction upon the Cause will be tremendous, and the impetus it shall give to the movement, irresistible."
Soon shall the city of Tihrán, Persia, witness the laying of the foundation of the Temple of Worship, for restrictions have been removed and hindrances eliminated.
It will be of interest to note that a hearty invitation has been extended to 'Abdu'l-Bahá by the friends of 'Ishqábád, in writing and through an oral message, supplicating him to come to 'Ishqábád and thus rejoice those expectant friends.



XI:1, 21 March 1920
page 17
Editorial note37
Through a misunderstanding the Bahá'ís of the Occident believed that the "blessed days", foreseen by Daniel (12:12), began in the year 73 of the Bahá'í dispensation, which corresponds to the year 1917 of the Christian calendar, or 100 years after the birth of Bahá'u'lláh, but this error on our part has been corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in a recent Tablet to Faraju'lláh Dhakí al Kurdí, as follows:
"As to the question thou hast asked in connection with the verse in Daniel's book, namely:  'Blessed is he who cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days.'  This year should be taken as a solar year and not a lunar one, for in accordance with this calculation one century will have elapsed from the rising of the Sun of Truth, when the teachings of God will have been firmly established, when the lights will have flooded all the regions in the East as well as the West.  On that day will the believing souls rejoice. ..."
This indicates that there are over thirty years more of storm and sunshine, of difficulty and happiness before the beginning of the blessed millennial summer time of the Kingdom of God on earth.
Let us appreciate the value of the springtime.
Alláh-u-Abhá!-The Editors.


XI:1, 21 March 1920
page 20
"Before choosing a wife a man must think soberly"
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb on 22 December 1918, the day before his departure from the Holy Land.
Now that thou art returning to America thou must think of taking unto thyself a wife.  Do thou choose a girl who may be suitable to thy intellectual and spiritual ideals.  She must be wise, intelligent, and a symbol of aspiring perfection.  She must take an interest in all the problems pertaining to thy life, and be thy companion and partner in every phase of thy existence.  She must be sympathetic, kind-hearted, happy and endowed with a joyful disposition.  Then thou must devote thy self to her happiness and love her with a glorious, spiritual love.
Before choosing a wife a man must think soberly and seriously that this girl will be his friend throughout all his life.  It is not a temporary matter.  She is a soul with whom he must associate all the days of his life; she will be his mate and his intimate confidant; therefore, day by day their love and their attachment to each other must increase.
The greatest bond that will unite the hearts of man and wife is faithfulness and loyalty.  Both must exercise toward each other the utmost faithfulness and loyalty and not let any trace of jealousy creep between them; for this thing like unto poison vitiates the very foundation of love.
The man and wife must dedicate their knowledge, their talents, their fortunes, their titles, their bodies and their spirits, first to Bahá'u'lláh and then to each other.  Their thoughts must be lofty, their ideals luminous, their hearts spiritual, and their souls the dawning-places of the rays of the Sun of Reality.  They must not become ill-disposed toward each other on account of the ephemeral incidents and accidents of this changeful life.  Their hearts must be spacious, as spacious as the universe of God.  In case any difference of opinion should arise between them, they must do their utmost to settle it by themselves, and not let its knowledge go out of the family; for people are apt to change a speck into a mountain.  Again, in case a circumstance causes a real offence between the two, they must not keep it in their hearts, but rather explain its nature to each other and try to remove it as soon as possible.  They must prefer fellowship and amity to jealousy and hypocrisy, and be like two pure mirrors reflecting the light of the stars of love and beauty to each other.
You must tell to each other all your noble and heavenly conceptions.  Have no secrets between you.  Make your home a haven of rest and peace.  Be ye hospitable and let the doors of your home be open to the faces of friends and strangers.  Welcome everyone with a smiling face and let them all feel that they are in my home.
God has created such union and harmony between man and wife that no one can conceive in this world a greater plane of union.  You must irrigate continually the tree of your union with the water of love and affection, so that it may remain green and verdant throughout all the seasons, producing the most luscious fruits for the healing of the nations.
In short, you two must live such a life that your home may become a vision of the paradise of Abhá; so that whosoever enters therein may feel the essence of purity and cleanliness, and may cry out unconsciously:  "Here is the home of love, here is the palace of love, here is the nest of love, here is the garden of love;" and you two, like unto two sweet-singing birds, must be
page 21
perched on the highest branches of the tree of life, filling the air with songs of love and happiness.
Endeavour as far as you are able to lay the foundation of your love in the very centre of your spiritual being, in the very heart of your consciousness, and do not let this foundation of love be shaken in the least.
And when God gives you sweet and lovely children, exert yourselves in their education and training, so that they may become the imperishable flowers of the divine rose-garden, the nightingales of the ideal paradise, the servants of the world of humanity and the fruits of the Tree of Life.
Live ye in such a manner that others may take your life as an example, and may say to each other:  "Look!  How they live like unto two doves in one nest with perfect love, affinity and harmony.  It is as though God had kneaded from eternity the very essence of their beings for the love of each other."
When such conditions exist and such ideals hold sway, then you have taken a large portion from the everlasting life, have quaffed deeply from the fountain of Truth, and have spent your days in the paradise of glory gathering the immortelles38 of divine mysteries.
Be ye to each other as heavenly lovers and divine beloved ones.  Spend your life in the paradise of love.  Build your nest on the leafy branches of the tree of love.  Soar ye in the clear atmosphere of love.  Swim ye in the shoreless sea of love.  Walk ye in the eternal rose-garden of love.  Move ye in the shining rays of the sun of love.  Be ye firm and steadfast in the path of love.  Perfume your nostrils with the sweet fragrance of the flowers of love.  Familiarize your ears with the soul-entrancing melodies of love.  Be ye intoxicated with the wine of love.  Drink we deeply of the elixir of love.  Let your ideals be the bouquet of love, and your conversation the white pearls of the ocean of love.
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 6 December 1919, Sebastopol, California.


XI:2, 9 April 1920
page 25
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
We do not look at the evil deeds of the people.  We do not consider the race, the religion, or nationality.  We do our utmost to help everyone.  The inhabitants of these parts know this and, therefore, whenever they are in difficulties, or have had business reverses they come to us and we will never send them away unaided or deprived.  This is the quality of the Bahá'ís.  This is the conduct of the believers.  This is the path of the kingdom of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 24 January 1914.


XI:2, 9 April 1920
page 27
The Coming of the Promised One
Address by Howard C. Ives of New York City, delivered at the Eighth Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Wednesday afternoon, 30 April 1919.
Did you ever stand upon a high point and see the sun rise?  I have stood among the foothills of the Rocky Mountains and watched the dawn break over the hills, the morning star gradually dimming in its glory, the faint first rosy light creeping up the horizon, and then gradually, above the mountains, the first rim of the radiant glory of the orb; then lifting, and lifting, and flooding the earth with its glory.  Not in all nature is there such a sight; nothing will compare with that wonderful miracle.  I have heard it said that if it happened only once a year people would be on their knees for days before, longing, searching, for the first sign, hoping for that coming.  Imagine, friends, if it only happened once every thousand years.  Stretch the wings of your imagination and think of the legends that would be handed down from father to son, and son to son, from generation to generation and think how they would watch the constellations of the sky-for praise be to God, even in the darkest night, there are stars in the sky-and think how the traditions would have mentioned that, before the dawning, a morning star would appear, and when that morning star arose above the horizon and gradually found its way toward the zenith, think how men's hearts would leap with joy, and they would say, "He is coming!  He is coming!  I have seen his sign in the sky!"  And then think what a dawning that would be when the sunrise came once only every thousand years.  You could not stand and wait for it.  The father would see the first faint gleam upon the horizon, and the sons would see it gradually grow and grow, and the grandsons would see the first faint roseate tinge upon the mountain tops, and the great-grandsons would look and long for the orb to appear, and the great-great-grandsons would see it gradually rise above the horizon.
My friends, there is not one single thing in all this world that is not a symbol of the spiritual reality, and what I have just painted in words for you is an actual fact.  The Sun of Reality rises only once every thousand years or so, the stars in the heaven precede his dawning, the hearts of men become weary through the night as they watch the stars in the sky and long for the coming of that which the stars promise.  Throughout the ages it has been said that in the time of the coming of the Sun of Truth there shall be a new heaven and a new earth.  What does that mean?  Certainly not that this sky shall be changed and this earth beneath our feet altered.  No!  The sky that we see and the earth beneath our feet are but symbols again, just as the sun is a symbol and the stars are symbols.  The sky is a symbol of the heaven of religion and the earth is a symbol of the hearts that are softened for the springtime.
Many thousand years ago a Sun appeared-we call his name Abraham-a
page 28
Sun of Reality rose gradually according to the promise; and the star-I don't mean the material star, I mean the heart and the longing thoughts of men, longing just then as we do now-and the constellations, arose with him, thus a new heaven appeared.  Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, David, Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos, Ezekiel were the stars of that heaven, they were the constellations appearing with that promised One.
And then Moses came, bringing with him his own group.
Then Jesus Christ came.  Think of the stars that rose with him.  John, Stephen, Paul, Timothy, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of Jesus, Mary and Martha the sisters, Luke the physician, Matthew the publican, Peter the fisherman!  Ah, they are the illuminating lights that come with that promised One, they are the stars of his heaven, and they, after the sun has set, illuminate the dark sky throughout the age, then gradually dwindling in glory until the sun again rises.  But when the sun appears from the horizon of the vernal equinox, on the twenty-first of March, it brings the glory of the springtime; so when the Sun of Reality rises, He brings healing on His wings, and a new springtime comes to the human heart.
Just as the farmer goes out and ploughs and harrows the hard soil, so the Spirit of God moves upon the hearts, and pain, sorrow and suffering plough the hearts.  Nations tremble because of starvation, famine, agonies and tears!  That is why the earth is filled with woe-woe, woe, woe-when the promised One appears.  Praise be to God, for without that woe our hearts would still be hard, just as the ground is hard until with the softening of the rain and the warmth of the sun and the plough and the harrow, it is broken to pieces, in order that the seed may fall and fructify and grow and bring forth a hundred fold.
My friends, praise be to God, the promised One hath come again.  We have waited long throughout the centuries; our hearts have grown into stone, our hearts have become frozen, our hearts have fallen low in woe and weeping.  Praise be to God, he hath come again!  He hath come again!  The Sun of Reality hath risen.  O that isn't all, for there is a new heaven, and there is also a new earth.  What good would the sun be?  What good would the crossing of the equinox be in the early spring were there not an earth to feel its rays?  Of what earthly use is it, if the promised One, the Sun of Reality, dawns and there are no hearts to receive the light?  Praise be to God, there are always hearts to receive the light.  We are His creatures, the children of His hand, the offspring of His love.  We long for Him and He longs for us.  Now in this great Day of God the hearts are turning unto Him.
Was it yesterday that our dear sister, Mrs Maxwell, quoted the beautiful words from Daniel that "the wise shall shine as the sun and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever."  There is your perfect symbol.  That is the ancient version, the old version, but the revised version has it much more beautiful:  "They that be teachers shall shine as the sun; they that turn many to righteousness as the stars, forever and ever."  Bahá'u'lláh glorified God in his wonderful Book, The Kitáb-i-Íqán:  "At that time the signs of the Son of Man shall appear in the heavens."  That is, the promised Beauty and substance of life shall come from the court of the invisible into the visible world.  That is the coming of the promised One; that is the coming of the Son of Man; that is the dawning of the signs in the heavens.  "The appearance", as he says again in another passage, "when the face of the promised One and the beauty of the adored One shall descend from heaven riding upon a cloud."  That is, the divine Beauty will appear from the heavens of the Supreme Will in the human temple.
So my friends, change your point of
page 29
view for a moment from thinking of the heavens above and the rising of the sun and its glory; change your point of view to the divine Beauty appearing in the human form here on earth.  Imagine the divine Beauty descending from heaven "riding on a cloud", that is the human form, the cloud hiding him from our eyes, nevertheless dwelling in the human temple, seeing with human eyes, walking with human feet, eating, drinking, suffering, longing-the divine Beauty nevertheless, the promised Beauty and substance of life!  Think of those words, the promised Beauty, the very substance of life, appearing in a human temple.  This is the Sun of Reality I am talking about, shining upon the human earth, the earth of human hearts.
Ah, my friends, make the picture, for his human temple is the Sun of Reality, and within that human temple, which is nothing but a cloud, the Sun is shining to those whose eyes can see it.  Shall he shine in our hearts?  Shall he bring forth fruits meet for repentance, as Jesus said?  Shall the wheat of divine love grow?  Shall the fruits of glorious perfection appear?  Shall the clouds of mercy from the divine heaven pour upon ready hearts the drops of his mercy and the fire of his love?  Shall there appear from this earth the great and glorious results worthy of such a Sun from such a heaven?  Praise be to God, I don't even have to ask, for the new earth has come.
When the sun rises in the springtime, when the sun gradually crosses the line, what do we see?  Do we see all at once the earth burst into beauty and perfection?  Do we see all at once the fruits of the harvest appear?  Oh, no, we see a blade of grass here and there, a little green leaf, then the rest; we see a tree just beginning to show its buds-but these are the new earth.  All the cold and hard world does not exist.  I don't care how many millions of dead leaves there are, the one blade of grass, the one green leaf is the new earth.  And so, show me one soul responding to the new Sun; show me one life ready to lay itself down in self-abnegation and perfect renunciation; show me one martyr to the Sun of Truth; show me one who is placing heart and soul on the altar of self-sacrifice, purity and love that is the new earth!  That is all the earth there is.  Let the rest go, it doesn't exist.  It is dark and cold, it is dead.
Does it exist?  Do you say that the dead bodies in the graves exist in comparison with the people walking on the street?  I tell you, my friends, all those who do not know Bahá'u'lláh, and his glory, all those who do not turn to him in this new age, simply do not exist.  On the other hand, verily, they are in their graves and they know it not.  Arise, arise, O earth of human hearts!  Arise, burst the prison bars, come out from the cage!  Be ye resurrected from the dead bodies of self and desire and ascend to that station for which ye were created!  When the Sun of Reality arises in the human temple, it creates effects upon the human hearts just as the sun does upon the material earth, and results appear.  He speaks, and it is done.
My friends, think, think of these last four days you and I have been listening-don't let us lose the figure-you and I have been seeing the rays of the Sun of Truth shining upon the earth and results appearing.  Go ye into all the world, shine as the Sun of Truth, carry to all the world the news that rays of the Sun of Reality shining upon the world shall transform it, proclaim to them that the Prince of Peace hath come, that never again shall there be war amongst nations, never again shall there be war between creeds and classes and sects, never again shall labour and capital be arrayed against each other, never again shall there be loveless homes and divorce courts, never again shall there be strife between children in the streets, never again shall there be anything that shall mar the beauty of the love of God in the human heart.  That is the procla-
page 30
mation-and it is done.  What difference does it make if it doesn't come at once?  Does that alter the fact?  We who see the sun rise and cross the equinox every springtime, do we say, because the whole world does not burst into beauty and harvest at once, that it won't come?  I tell you the first blade of grass is the whole thing, to anyone who sees.  And so when the Word of God goes forth, the thing is done.
Arise!  Arise!  O ye chosen of the world, and be ye the divine helpers of God, says Bahá'u'lláh.  How?  Praise be to God, the command not only goes forth but the way of development is shown not only in words but in example.  Bahá'u'lláh says, "Though ye cut off my limbs, yet shall the love of God not depart out of my heart.  Verily, I was created for sacrifice, therefore do I glory over the world."  Do you want then to know how you shall glory over the world, how you shall establish the Kingdom of God in hearts, how you shall carry out the teachings of these blessed Tablets that we are listening to?  Here is the recipe, "Though they cut off my limbs, yet shall the love of God not depart out of my heart.  I was created for sacrifice, therefore do I glory over the world!"  Those who believe in Bahá'u'lláh, those who have turned their hearts to the Centre of His Covenant, those who love the Blessed Perfection, were created by the Sun of Reality in the human temple for sacrifice, and by sacrifice shall they glory over the world as He did and establish the Kingdom of the promised One in the hearts and souls.
"The blessed person of the promised One is interpreted in the holy books as the Lord of Hosts, i.e., the heavenly armies!  By heavenly armies those souls are intended who are free from the human world, transformed into celestial spirits and have become divine angels."  There are your celestial armies.  They who shall become divine angels, are those who have turned their backs upon the world, who were created by the love of God and His Blessed Beauty for sacrifice.
Alláh-u-Abhá!
page 30
The most great characteristic:  The Centre of the Covenant
Address by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí of Chicago, delivered at the Eighth Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Wednesday afternoon, 30 April 1919.
As I have been quite ill for the last three days, I did not expect to be here this afternoon, but memory recalled a beautiful afternoon, in the year 1912, when our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant, commanded his Persian party, including this servant, to address the friends in New York on the same subject that we have this afternoon, "The Centre of the Covenant", and therefore I was strengthened to come to this blessed gathering.
Why is it that the most great characteristic of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh concerns the Centre of the Covenant?  Why this greatness or extreme importance?  Because the Covenant is the one power that preserves unity among mankind, prevents sectarianism and protects all the principles of Bahá'u'lláh.  For example:  The investigation of reality is a principle of Bahá'u'lláh.  If one were to say, "I can interpret that.  It has another meaning.  It does not mean that we must investigate reality."  The power of the Covenant is the one weapon that would stop such an interpreter.  If one were to say, regarding the principle of Bahá'u'lláh to do away with racial and all other prejudices, "I understand it differently, racial differences must exist", the only weapon with which you could overpower such an interpreter is the Covenant.  In other words, the only interpreter is the beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Should one in most eloquent language
page 31
try to prove the inequality of the sexes, reply to such a one that the only interpreter is His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant, and the power of the Covenant will prevent wrong interpretation.  Should one try to convince the world that universal peace was not right, we would know, by the power of the Covenant, that such interpretation was wrong, and that would be the only way to stop such false interpretation.
So, you see, all the other principles of Bahá'u'lláh are protected, too, by that power of the Covenant.  The progress of the religions of the past depended upon the unity of the believers, and the failure thereof was caused by the disunity and differences of the believers.  Consider the essence of history.  Take the Jewish religion.  Its founder, Moses, delivered the people of Israel, who were enslaved and persecuted by the Pharaohs, and saved them from bondage in Egypt.  Under him all became free in the Land of Promise.  For four hundred and fifty years they were ruled by four hundred judges, a congress, in the Holy Land.  They progressed day by day because they were united.  Through the power of the prophet Samuel, Saul, the first king, was placed on the throne and became the ruler of the Jews.  They were united upon the text and teachings of Moses.  Saul died and was succeeded by David.  Still that religion was progressing.  David died and his son Solomon was made king.  That period was the highest of the Jewish civilization.  The kingdom extended to the Euphrates and the Red Sea.  They became the teachers of the then known world.  Many of the philosophers of the Romans, the Greeks and other nations went to learn from them and to be educated.  The downfall of the Jews began when, after the death of Solomon, his son Rehoboam became king, the Jews splitting into two factions or kingdoms, one of which, the kingdom of Judah remained loyal and offered allegiance to Rehoboam, while the other, the Kingdom of Israel, elected for its sovereign Jeroboam from the descendants of Joseph who lived in Mesopotamia.
This first split divided their power, creating enmity, suspicion and hate, and wars resulted to the extent that Jeroboam declared that it was just as good to worship a bull as to go to Jerusalem, the holy city, and worship God, because he did not want his people to go and become acquainted with the other king, the son of Solomon.  When that discord took place and wars had begun between the two factions, other nations attacked and crushed them.  Then the Romans, Assyrians, Babylonians and Egyptians came and destroyed them, the Jews falling into degeneration and slavery.  The Assyrians annihilated the kingdom of Israel, and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, attacked Judea, taking captive and burning Jerusalem.  The kingdom of Israel was utterly annihilated and the remnants of the kingdom of Judea were saved by the mercy of the Persian kingdom.  Later the Jews were divided into the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Publicans, etc.
At such time Jesus Christ appeared.  He came to unite them and to guide all the people.  Instead of receiving and following him, they crucified him.  After his departure Christianity was a target of persecution for seventy years.  Titus, the Emperor of the Romans, then became interested in the Christian religion.  He killed more than a million of the Jews, scattered the rest and destroyed Jerusalem.  To the Christians he gave freedom-that is, seventy years after the birth of Jesus Christ and the Christians were given an opportunity to go forth and teach the Romans.  That freedom, however, was later taken from them and Nero, the Roman Emperor, persecuted them severely.  While intoxicated, Nero burned the city of Rome and in the morning
page 37
wanted to know who had done it.  The enemies of the Christians told him that Paul, Peter and the Christians, to whom he had given freedom, were the cause of the burning of the city of Rome, the most beautiful capital of the world at that time.  He immediately became their oppressor and put to death those two great martyrs, Paul and Peter.  Thus not only did the Jews, but the Romans as well take part in the persecution.  Briefly, for three hundred years the Christians were oppressed.
Then Constantine, the brave Emperor of Rome, became a Christian.  He spread Christianity throughout the world and it began to progress from that time.  He moved from Rome and made his capital in Constantinople, that city being named in his honour.  It was the glory of Christianity when Constantine was the Emperor.  What else did
page 38
Constantine do?  Christianity was at the zenith of its prosperity, when he did something that marked the beginning of its fall.  When he moved from Rome to Constantinople he wanted to have a democracy among the leaders of all the churches.  Every church had a bishop, but they were all under the bishop of Rome, who was called or known as the Pope.  Constantine said:  "No, we must have a democracy.  The power should not be in the hands of the Pope."  Thus the first split took place in Christianity, half becoming Orthodox and the other half Catholics.  Those who wanted all the power to be in the hands of the Pope were called Catholics and those who believed that the power should be divided and every bishop should have equal freedom were called Orthodox.
During the third and fourth centuries another division took place in Christianity, the subject of contention this time being that of the doctrine of the Trinity.  There were those who believed in the union of God, the Son and the Holy Ghost-the three in one-and those who believed it could not be done; those who believed that Jesus Christ had two natures, the divine and the human, and those who said:  "No, God is above mentioning.  No one can comprehend Him.  Jesus Christ is the Manifestation of God and that is all."  Thus was another division created, this time on account of the doctrine of the Trinity, and every time a division took place, wars resulted and blood was shed.
In the year AD 325, Constantine called the first general council at Nicaea, in Bithynia,39 in order to settle the differences, but that could not be done.  Arius, the eloquent priest, who interpreted the Trinity and who became the cause of the controversy, was excommunicated by the Orthodox church.
In the fifth century, another sect, the Nestorians, was created by Nestorius, a brilliant priest.  At that time the Christians believed that Jesus Christ had two natures, divine and human, and, therefore, it mattered not whether Mary was called "the mother of the Lord" or "the mother of Jesus".  But Nestorius and his followers taught that Mary must be called only "the mother of Jesus" and not "the mother of the Lord".  Briefly, these arguments ended in bloody battles.  Then general councils were held.  Nestorius was excommunicated, but the sect remains in Persia to this day.
Another sect came into existence and that was the Jacobites, founded by Jacobus Baradaeus, a priest.  They promulgated the belief that Jesus Christ had one divine nature only and they tried to promote unity.
In the sixth century Christianity was spread in the west of Europe as far as Britain and Saxony, and in the east to the shores of the Black Sea and the Danube.
In the seventh century the Islamic religion appeared and the Muslims had terrific clashes with the Christians.
In the eighth century another division took place and this was the last division.  And what caused that?  Pictures!  Those who believed in having pictures in the church, and those who said:  "This means that we are like the heathen.  If we put a picture before us, what is the difference between us and those who worship idols?
This controversy created another sect.  There was another war and another general council or convention, but with no result.  If you travel in the Orient you will find the Nestorians and the Jacobites as well as many other sects.  These various sects have been separating themselves from the rest of the world and living in ignorance on account of one person who interpreted something for his own desire and his own selfishness.
In the ninth and tenth centuries there were continuous wars among the various sects-two centuries of bloodshed-but they conquered in Hungary, Russia, and other places.
page 39
The eleventh century began with the greatest and longest war the world had ever witnessed.  It started with the organization of 800,000 soldiers in Europe, who proceeded to the Holy Land to take it from the Muslims.  That was the war of the Crusaders.
The eleventh century, the twelfth, the thirteenth and the fourteenth saw nothing but wars and struggle between the European Christians and the Muslims, resulting in nothing but failure and manifest loss.
In the fifteenth century the Pope proclaimed himself as an absolute power.
In the sixteenth century Luther arose against the Pope and the result was the establishment of the Protestant sect.
If we follow carefully this brief outline of the history of the Jews and the Christian church, we come to the conclusion that had the Divine Will appointed a Centre, through Moses or through Jesus Christ, these divisions would not have occurred.
It is not necessary to mention the divisions in the Islamic religion because they were similar to the other religions.
Therefore, the most great characteristic of the religion of Bahá'u'lláh is, The Centre of the Covenant-that which the previous divine Manifestations did not bring.  This will fortify the Cause from now until at least one thousand years, and perhaps until thousands of years have passed away.  Through the power of the Covenant no one can create a sect or division in the Bahá'í Cause.
In 1891, Bahá'u'lláh referred to his departure thus:  "In my appearance there was a wisdom, and in my disappearance there is another wisdom."  All who heard him felt that the day of his departure was near.  It came in 1892.  The believers who were gathered in 'Akká and who numbered not more than 600 people, in one week became divided into twenty-three sects.  In other words, in one week they had twenty-three opinions as to what would be done in the future, now that Bahá'u'lláh had departed.  Each one had an opinion and each thought his opinion was the best.  On the ninth day a little satchel that had belonged to Bahá'u'lláh and which had been sealed with His blessed seal, was brought by His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá and placed before the twenty-three divisions or sects if you wish to so call them.  It was opened and, behold, it contained the Book of the Covenant, in which it was written:  "All must obey and turn to the one whom God has chosen."  In the Tablets and in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh says:  "The purpose is the Greatest Branch.  He is the explainer of the Books.  He is my interpreter.  He is the Branch of Holiness.  He is the greatest favour and blessing for mankind and the protection of all.  He is the Mystery of God.  He is the one around whom all the names and attributes of God revolve."  Even He (Bahá'u'lláh) asks all the divine blessings for all those who turn to him, and woe for all those who turn away from him.
That Book was read.  All the faces brightened.  All bowed down in the spirit of acceptance.
But certain prophecy had to be fulfilled, namely, "From the East and the West they will come and enter into the Kingdom of God, but the children of the Kingdom will be cast out."  A few, however, with veiled spiritual vision, such as Mírzá Muhammad 'Alí, rejected it and turned away, as the owls and the night birds who flee from the light of the sun.  The fire of jealousy and envy took such hold on them that they preferred to be known as náqidín-meaning violators of the Covenant.  Those who turned away simply destroyed their own lives, here, there and everywhere, as did Judas Iscariot.  Those who took hold of "The Branch" grew and produced fruit, becoming as shining stars in the horizons.
The beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in order to
page 40
have us all united, accepted the station of servitude, calling himself, "The Servant of Bahá", that we might all learn a lesson from that humbleness-not because his station is lower than the rest.  The qualities of the sun are manifest; the eyes behold them and it is not necessary to try to convince us that they are there.
We should carefully study the religion of Bahá'u'lláh and obey it.  See with what names, what attributes Bahá'u'lláh has clothed His Greatest Branch.  Study the Tablet of the Branch and see how the Blessed Tree described its Branch.  The title of "'Abdu'l-Bahá" should be our mirror into which we should look every day to learn the lesson of humbleness and servitude.  The title which he chose for himself, namely, "The Servant", should be a lesson to us to try to overcome our arrogance and selfishness, because the ego is the only enemy of the Bahá'í.  The Bahá'í has no enemy except his own ego and that ego often makes him lower than the animals, Jesus Christ taught the same lesson to the world when he said:  "Why callest thou me good?  None is good save One, that is, God."  That was a lesson to his disciples to teach them humbleness and reverence.
In Persia the Cause is firm and on a solid foundation.  If anyone comes to them with an idea that would seemingly destroy rather than build the Cause, they ask him in a gentle manner:  "Is this your own opinion or that of 'Abdu'l-Bahá?"  If he answers:  "This is my opinion," they say:  "Bárik-Alláh (God bless you).  This may be a good opinion, but keep it for yourself.  How do we know?  Today you praise this one and tomorrow you hate him.  Today you hate this one and tomorrow you praise him.  How do we know which one you are going to take?"  In this manner they close the door of differences.  This does not mean, however, that if the believers want to build up the work, lending their influence and their opinions which are harmonious to the Cause of God, being willing to even sacrifice their lives if necessary, that we should suspect them.  God forbid!  There should be no such misunderstanding.  But if there be anything contrary to the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, then ask such an one to produce a written statement proving his authority.
Differences are of two kinds, constructive and destructive.  If one should come and say, "I want to help you build this house," you reply, "Welcome."  But should he say, "I do not agree with you.  Build it this way.  I want to destroy this building.  Build it somewhere else"-that difference, my friends, would be destructive.  If, therefore, there are differences of opinion among the believers which are conducive to the promulgation of the Cause, there is no harm in such differences; but ideas or statements that are contrary to the teachings must be authenticated, must be shown, must be proven.
Therefore, the Bahá'ís who would keep the Cause clean and strong, should, like unto a wise and careful gardener who guards the young trees, plant seeds that will grow and which the winds of doubt will not blow away, the heat of envy and jealousy will not burn, the thief will not steal and the fire of desire will not consume; and should protect them from the contrary winds of conflicting and confusing opinions that are conducive to separation rather than to unity.
Our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá says that, in the future, even the rulers, the kings of the world, will tremble if they try to deviate one hair's breadth from this great Covenant.  There is no doubt about it, because the religion of Bahá'u'lláh is protected and fortified.  That oneness, which is the foundation of the religion of Bahá'u'lláh, cannot be shaken when the banner of the mighty Covenant is waving over the heads.
Alláh-u-Abhá!


XI:3, 28 April 1920
page 43
"The doors of the Kingdom are open"
Address by William H. Randall, of Boston, delivered at the Ninth Session of the Bahá'í Congress, held in Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Wednesday evening, 30 April 1919.
'Abdu'l-Bahá once said, "Never talk about God to a man with an empty stomach.  Feed him first."  Surely in the past three days he has fed us, and in this hour that draws this wonderful and marvellous Convention and Congress to a close, it certainly seems befitting that we should turn our hearts to the Kingdom of the Covenant, and with the deepest reverence for this great opportunity and great service that is before us in giving his methods to the whole world of humanity.
For nineteen centuries the Kingdom of Heaven has been largely considered by man merely a parable, but this seed of the Kingdom, unobserved by mankind, has been growing and growing through the centuries until in this day it has become a tree of fruitage, and through these wonderful Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá the fruit of this Kingdom is offered to you now in the heavenly banquet that he has served during these four days, and its life, its sustenance, its strength are eternal.  This is the hour of faith, the day of miracles, the century of light, and in this wonderful epoch two worlds have met and embraced in the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the world of God and the world of humanity; and how glorious, how wonderful that he should come to us in the station of servitude and call to the whole world, "Come, ye people, unto the Kingdom of God, for today the doors are open, and the station of servitude is the highway thereto."
Someone asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá once why the rivers and the streams all flowed into the ocean, and he replied, "Attraction, because the ocean places itself lower than all else it the world."  This is the supreme quality of the station of servitude, and I think if we lift our eyes to the portals we shall find written above in letters of light, "radiant acquiescence".  Who can fail to make every effort to reach this doorway, which is the pathway unto the Kingdom of Glory?
Kingdom naturally implies organization.  How is it that there can be organization in a kingdom that we call the kingdom of the Spirit?  In the world of affairs, organization in itself is power, yet disharmony flows from it; but in the world of the Kingdom, where love is the law of organization, unity radiates from its power.  In the world of hearts, the heart is an organ, but when the breath wings its flight with love, the organic heart turns its way back to the mineral kingdom.  The heart that seeks only the centre of self has never left the kingdom of nature, but the heart that is enkindled with the love of humanity is already on its way to the worlds of God.
This Kingdom that draws us, and irresistibly draws us on through the ages, what is its power?  With man, power is effort; but with God power is attraction.  It holds atoms and worlds in one embrace and impels them through the great universe of search, search for the centre of that attraction.  It draws forth from the common soil and clothes with the
page 44
substance of light the form of flowers and fruit.  As love, it persuades man through the various courts of attraction until his soul reaches the court of the placeless, drawn in by the Centre of the Covenant, and therein does man find the heaven and the paradise of the preordained command of God that is the potential unfolding of his greatest capacity, his greatest happiness, his greatest service, that makes him one of the drops in the ocean of the unity of God's love.
My dearest, dearest friends:  We have had revealed to us in these sublime Tablets, a whole new world order of life.  We have had presented to us with its great opportunity the chance to rise and to serve God in His world.  I believe in this day that disciples choose themselves, that all may be disciples, that we are all called to the station of discipleship in this new and glorious kingdom; that God Himself has incarnated in the world, and founded the great Spiritual Magna Carta and its laws, its joys and its happiness, and has placed them in the hands of the friends of America.  He has given to America the station of the illumination of the world, and now, we must build deep that it may be high, we must build outside of time that it may withstand time.  Peter and Paul built beyond the empire of Rome, they built beyond the time of the life of all emperors because they built deep and they built high.  It is our greatest privilege, it is our greatest joy, it is the supreme happiness now of our lives to dedicate them to this service to the Kingdom.
Do not think I am too solemn-I never was happier in my life; but the magnitude of this vision is so great that I seem almost lost even in the contemplation of it.  We must arise, we must become organized through that organizing power of love which is the magnet of the spirit and we must go forth with heart and mind illumined with the living light, with the substance of these great and universal Tablets.  A few years longer, and eternity beyond; God calls at this very hour.  Can we fail?  Have we any choice but to obey?
To love is a wondrous thing; to be loved is a miracle.  Sometimes we falter when we love, but it seems to me when we know we are loved our steps are firm; and 'Abdu'l-Bahá loves us, every soul, his eye is upon every soul gathered in this Convention tonight and he loves us with the encircling burning power of love.  Can we fail to respond to that love?  Can we when he has spent every hour from childhood to the present moment, forty years of it in prison, in hardships, going through the pathway of every possible self-denial, surrendering the human spirit with which he contacts with the world, can we feel that at this hour we can do greater than to turn our eyes to the call of this Kingdom and to arise and to serve and follow in the pathway of his blessed feet?
Oh, my dear friends, I know you feel the urge; I know that you realize the magnitude of the task, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said to us that he who will arise to be the herald of the glad-tidings of this day will be sustained by the Holy Spirit, will be received with an acclamation of joy into the Kingdom of God.  We will arise to this commanding spirit, and go forth as the heralds of light; we will spread this wondrous message of glad-tidings throughout the whole world, until every heart is touched, until every ear has heard, and every mind enkindled with the Supreme Spirit which composes the world in the harmony of living.
There is one splendour of the spirit that unites mankind in the service of brotherhood.  There is another glory that is celestial that transforms the heart from the image of the earthly into the image of the heavenly.  This is the pathway, the severed highway to the portals of light and His Word is the sign:  "The love of the Word of God is the magnet of heavenly beauty and glory."
Alláh-u-Abhá!


XI:3, 28 April 1920
page 45
The servant of God
Address by Albert Vail, of Chicago, delivered at the Ninth Session of the Bahá'í Congress, held in Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Wednesday evening, 30 April 1919.
The doors of the Kingdom are open; the Sun of Truth is shining upon the world; the day-springs of mercy have appeared."  What does this mean?  Evidently it means that this little world in which we live, in the sight of God is like a tiny ball floating in a universe of infinitely wonderful light.  In the sight of God, this handful of dust, the world, is but one home and all the prayer of the eternal world is that this world may be in unity.  Now when the darkness and the storm spread over the earth, it seems very dark to us who are underneath the clouds.  But if we can rise a little in the altitude of the spirit and see the Sun of Truth eternally shining from the heaven of God's presence, no cloud which ever came over the world would be more than a temporary passing mist.
The God who made this little world also made all the heavenly and divine worlds.  He evidently has a clear purpose for this world on which we dwell, and that purpose is that, after the thousands of years of war, it should enter into a millennium of peace.  The world could have no other meaning than that this strife and confusion would at last prepare the hearts of men for the sweetness of the kingdom of universal peace.
Now, when the King begins to send His light into the world the people catch only a few rays of the dawning Sun of Reality as it rises over the horizon of man's limitation and breaks through the clouds of his suspicion, his ignorance and his prejudice.  The first few rays in this new day, are the desire for a League of Nations, the longing for democracy; the prayer for woman's suffrage, for equality between men and women, the longing for universal education, for science, for civilization, for new arts, that great yearning that touches the hearts of all men all over the world and, stirring in their hearts, tells them that the new day is here, the divine world is breaking into the human world.
What we want to know is the next step toward the realization of this universal prayer.  Is there a soul on this globe today who is not praying in his heart for the dawn of the Most Great Peace amongst the nations?  How can it be brought about?  That is the one problem around which all other problems revolve.  Politically, the League of Nations is the first great step.  We need a society of nations, a democracy of the world.  We also need woman's suffrage so that women, tender, loving and intuitive, may more completely direct the operations of the nation.  But the fundamental problem goes deeper than any political, democratic, economic or educational organization.  'Abdu'l-Bahá in his classic story has put the world situation like this:  He says that the governments of the world are much in the state of three men who went out sailing in a boat.  One was a Christian, one was a Muslim and one was a Jew.  The Muslim bowed down as a storm approached over the water and he said, "O Alláh, drown in the depths of the water this infidel of a Christian."  The Christian said, "O God, sink in the depths of the sea this infidel of a Muslim."  The Jew remained silent.  They said, "Are you not praying in this moment of calamity?"  He replied," Oh yes, I was praying that both of your prayers might be answered." (Laughter.)
That is the world situation which we need to transform today.  That is the
page 46
world's heart which needs to be made into a new heart.  Now, how is this to be done?  The only way is to teach these people who look at each other so bitterly to see something in each other which is supremely beautiful and glorious.  If that Christian there in the boat could have looked into the Muslim's heart and seen that he was worshipping the same God as he, only under another name, the Muslim and the Christian could have become brothers; and if the Jew could have looked into both of their hearts and said, "O blessed Christ, you made the Torah celebrated all over the world; you made Moses celebrated, you made all Hebrews celebrated; you are the prophet of Israel," then there could be peace.  If the Muslim could see the good in the Christian, if the Christian could see the good in the Muslim, if the Jew could see that every great prophet in the world is one of God's messengers; if all could look into each other's hearts and see there the love of the Eternal Father, then there would begin on earth the Most Great Peace.
When you meet a stranger, says 'Abdu'l-Bahá, say, "Yonder is coming to me a letter sent me by God."  The outside of the envelope may be dirty, and torn and broken, but if we could open the envelope of the life that comes before us and look within the envelope and learn to read the writing, we would find in every human soul which crosses our threshold or which is yonder over the man-made national border, a message from God, and if we could understand the message it would be God's benediction to us.  There is only one hope for humanity today and that is to see all human beings as rays of the one divine sun which is God, as pearls of the one ocean which is God, flowers of the one garden whose Gardener is God, and to see all as potentially the light of the one sun which shall be diffused, waves of the one sea which shall overflow the world.  This is the foundation of peace upon the earth, to realize, as Paul said from Mars Hill, that "God made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, if haply they might feel after Him and find Him, though He be not far from any one of us."  'Abdu'l-Bahá says that God, the divine Gardener, looking over the garden of humanity, sees that it would be a monotonous garden if He made us all white, like white roses, and so, in His love of beauty and variety He made some of the roses yellow like the Mongolians and some brown like the Hindus and others red like the red men and others black like the coloured people.  God in His universal vision loves all the varieties, and for this reason He put these different coloured roses, His children, in the garden of humanity.  If we could see that they all come from one garden and they all diffuse one fragrance and they are all under the sun of one God, then would these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars pass away and upon this little planet the Most Great Peace of God would come.
How can we gain a belief in God vivid enough really to make this come about?  There is only one way and that is to find someone who manifests all that our divinest spirit wants to see of God.  Now when we look within ourselves we find our divine nature is like a tiny flickering candle.  When we look at the faces of most of our neighbours we know that their faces are sometimes dark and sometimes bright, like the passing of clouds and of sunshine, and we are never quite sure of our neighbour, whether he will be on his good behaviour today, or tomorrow.  We all vacillate and the divine side comes and goes.  How can we be sure that the divine is the real thing in the world, in ourselves and in our neighbour?  The only way is to know some being in whom the light of God's life is always shining, in whom the glory of God's presence is always resplendent, on the altar of whose sacrificed human self the eternal fire of God is always
page 47
burning.  There are human beings who are more than beings.  There are human beings who are simply temples of flesh in which is manifest the eternal glory of God.
Jesus said, "Have I been so long a time with you, yet hast thou not known me, Philip?  He that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayesth thou, then, show me the Father?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá says that God in His boundless mercy wishing the Kingdom on earth to be established sends these Messengers, these Manifestations of the Kingdom that in a temple of human flesh the glory of God may be made manifest and in the human heart the love of the Eternal Father may shine with all its sweetness and its beauty.  By sending the many Manifestations of His light does God make manifest within our scope and our horizon His eternal love, His being, His reality and His glory.  When Jesus shone forth from the horizon of Palestine reflecting, like a mirror, the Sun of Reality, he united many nations for a time.  Then the mirror was obscured by traditions, clouds and darkness, and men no longer saw the Father in His pure glory shining in the heart of this Messenger and Manifestation.  God had to send another Manifestation to make His truth apparent, for we forget, in this world, Oh, so easily, we forget about God.  We forget what God is like.  He had to send a long succession of Messengers to India.  He had to send Zoroaster to Persia, and then Muhammad to the Arabian villages.  And in this twentieth century, when the world is ready at last for the descent of the full splendour of the Kingdom, it is necessary, if we are to have a vision of God in the world, that there should appear again One in whom God's spirit can be seen so clearly that all the veils are stripped away, that all the doubts are burned away, and then we shall see face to face.
This has been the promise of the centuries:  "Behold there will come a great Messenger, a Manifestation of the Eternal, the promised One at the end of the age."  The Bible translators called this "the end of the world".  And it is the end of the old world of prejudice, of war, of confusion.  Then the Sun of the eternal Word will appear.  The light of God will become manifest again and, shining from the horizon of a human heart there will dawn this bright light of God's love and His truth so that all can see and no one can doubt, so that all over the world men can behold His glory and enter into the consciousness of God.
Bahá'u'lláh brought this great revelation to the world, but it came in him with such sublime light that people were almost dazzled by its splendour.  His splendour is so bright we can hardly look upon it.  And so the next great Herald of the Kingdom takes the form of a servant, the humblest form a human being can assume.  He lays aside his title; he calls himself simply, The Servant of the Glory of God.
He comes down right into the midst of men, living their life.  He plants his garden; he cooks the meals for the sick people; he makes them broth in the prison; he goes up and down the country like a ministering angel of God's mercy; he is the tenderest, the simplest, the lowliest of beings in the world.  When he is put in prison for teaching universal peace and universal brotherhood he counts this imprisonment the joy of his life.  'Abdu'l-Bahá tells us how when he was one day in the streets of 'Akká and the chains were around his waist and his neck, the jailer, his tender-hearted jailer, said, "Why don't you put a robe over those chains so the boys won't throw stones at you?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá, turning to him, replied:  "These chains are my badges of honour, my badges of glory, I could not conceal them."
Now it is this quality of service, in annihilation of self, that makes God's
page 55
Holy Spirit manifest.  When we visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Chicago and he met us there with all the freshness and joy of this eternal morning shining through his human spirit in its brightness and its beauty, and our hearts were thrilled with the consciousness that here was one who saw God face to face, nay, that made God's love manifest right in our midst.  And he said to us, "You know it doesn't make any difference what happens to one in the physical world.  I was a prisoner in a Turkish prison for forty years."  Then he told us how he slept upon the ground or upon the stone floor, how he was starved and chained and put into dungeons.  "And yet," he said, "every day when I awoke in the morning I praised God that another day was before me in which I could serve Him in His prison.  And every night when I lay down on the stone floor of the prison I thanked God that He had allowed me to serve His Kingdom one more day in His prison."
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá, turning to us with a light in his face and a joy that was almost overwhelmingly beautiful said, "I was in prison for forty years, and every day was a day of perfect joy."  As he said "joy" his spirit shone so bright that in our hearts we thought we had never before known what joy and happiness meant.  The people who were in the room said, "Isn't it amazing; when we are talking here with this Servant of God, all we can think of is God; we do not even see 'Abdu'l-Bahá."  And one woman said:  "I do not even know he is here; all I see is the Spirit of God shining in him as in a crystal or a diamond."  When she went away she did not think anything about 'Abdu'l-Bahá the human personality; all she knew was that for one-half hour she had been in the presence of the eternal world.  Like a door into the Kingdom was 'Abdu'l-Bahá, transmitting the light of eternity.  As she left his presence she said for the first time in her life she knew that God was King, and that there was no God but the God of this universe, and we could trust our lives to Him, our fortunes to Him, everything to Him because God is the Reality of realities.
What 'Abdu'l-Bahá brings to us is this consciousness of God.  Some people are troubled about the thought of his personality.  Those who see 'Abdu'l-Bahá's spirit cannot understand why they are troubled, for they never see his personality as a limitation.  It is just a mirror reflecting the light, and the light of God's presence shines so beautifully that after a while they do not even see the mirror.  They see only the light which is the Sun of Truth shining into this world, made manifest through this human Manifestation.
This, then, is the station of servitude and this is the station also of transfiguration.  "He took the form of a servant:  wherefore God highly exalted him, and gave him a Name that is above every name."  That is the way in which this Manifestation comes into the world today.  The wonderful thing, however, is this, that when we see the great Servant of God, the perfect One, then we are inspired with a new and irresistible power to walk in his pathway.  'Abdu'l-Bahá with the sweetest humility can say, "Look at me; be as I am; take no thought for yourself, what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, whether ye shall sleep, whether ye are comfortable, whether ye are with friends or foes, whether ye receive praise or blame; for all these things must ye care not at all.  Look at me and be as I am, and so shall ye die, to yourself and to the world, and be born again into the Kingdom of God."
page 56
The great Servant, the great Messenger, the promised One brings to us so vivid a consciousness of God that this consciousness begins to dominate and sway our life, makes us know that these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away and the Kingdom of Peace shall come.  He conveys his certainty to us by contagion, he conveys his humility to us, he conveys to us his purity, he conveys to us his holiness, he conveys to us his love, he becomes like the mirror of the eternal One reflecting into our receptive hearts the love, the light, the holiness of God.  When we turn our faces toward that eternal Sun, then petty, selfish things are melted away and the lower nature is burned away, and we say, "How little have we to give up, a few human ambitions and comforts and the things of this transitory earth-how little, if we may reflect just a few rays of this Kingdom into the hearts of the men and the women of this nation and the world."
In a word, God is again sending forth His angels with a great sound of a trumpet and they are calling:  "Arise ye!  O ye people, arise ye from the graves of your bodies, the graves of yourselves, the graves of limitation, of fear, of hatred; arise, O ye people.  Lo! the light of life hath come, the Beloved of the heart hath come, the most great Servant of God hath come, and His is the trumpet of the resurrection ringing through the world.  He has really come upon this planet; the Twentieth Century is the great resurrection day for all nations, and peoples and races of the world.
"The spirit of Christ is risen again.  The trumpet of resurrection calling today from Palestine is the voice of this wondrous Servant of God, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, humble, lowly, nothing in his outward personality, just the Voice through which the eternal God speaks.  O ye people, the hour of reconciliation is here, the hour of the most great federation of nations is here, the hour when all races are to become as one race has dawned, the hour when religions will become one religion, has now struck upon the clock of the eternal world."
And with his divine voice calling, crying, pleading and triumphantly urging, this Centre of the Covenant, this Centre of light is able to raise a multitude of people from all lands and races.  Think of us, here in America, on the other side of the world, hearing that voice raised in Palestine and finding in that voice the melody of God and in that heart the love of God!  Think of the people in India, in Burma, in Persia, in Russia, in Egypt, in China, in Japan-from all over the world-they are rising from the graves of their limitations and of their bodies because the trumpet of unity, the trumpet of universal light, the trumpet of the Kingdom has sounded from Palestine.  There again, the voice of God rings with a clear, bell-like tone summoning all nations to climb the mountain which is above the valleys of their separation, above the vales of exclusiveness and sectarianism, and ascends to the bell that is ringing there on the top of the mountain.  And as they draw near to the summit of transfiguration all the people, Muslims, Christians, Jews, Buddhists, and all religions, look into each other's faces and there on the mountain top of unity behold they are one, as their God is one!
Now God's great message, which is so clear that every one of us hears it and feels it in his heart, is this, that those who know the glad tidings of the light made manifest must go forth through this country and through the world and proclaim the news of its manifestations.  The people are perishing for lack of this Water of Life.  They are dying of thirst; and the fountain of the Water of Life eternal is now flowing.  Whoever has the cup, whoever has found the fountain and whoever dips the cup into the crystal fountain he becomes the cup-bearer of unity, he becomes a servant of the oneness of the human world.


XI:3, 28 April 1920
page 48
Diary letters of Shoghi Rabbání
Written to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb in America.
(Continued from Vol. X, p. 220.)
Haifa, Palestine.
12 February 1919.
Dear Ahmad,
This morning, some of the recently arrived supplications were answered in the form of short yet effective Tablets.  The second supplication from India is signed by a certain influential person, a khwája, who has been recently attracted to the Movement and is craving to attain the court of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's presence.  As emanating from a soul that has been entangled in superstition and prejudice and immersed in a sea of imagination, his words embodied in his supplication are indeed significant:  "Thy generosity is the elixir and thy bounty the solace for the weak heart of this humble servant, and the near prospect of attaining to the holy presence sustains his breath.  O most beloved Lord, look not at the failings, short comings and weakness of this humble beseecher and entreater, but towards the boundless ocean of thy love, mercy, bounty and grace.  Grant the fervent prayer of this humble one to approach thy holy self, keep him not far away and separate from thee and confer upon him the high privilege of viewing thy beautiful, illumined face."  The prayer of this soul has been answered for soon he shall present himself at the Holy Land, shall view the beautiful face of his beloved Lord and shall quaff from the inexhaustible fountain of his love.  The Tablet revealed to this friend this morning is a model of the sweetest and most gentle expressions that a beloved can reveal to his loving ones.
News reaches us to the effect that the friends of God in the different parts of Persia, devastated by famine, pestilence and internecine war, have been miraculously protected and saved.  With this gratitude is coupled the sense of extreme rejoicing and heartfelt gratitude for the news of peace, for the restoration of communications and for the possibility of a long awaited pilgrimage to the land of desire.  Letters have been received so far from Tihrán, Shíráz, and
page 49
tonight from Najafábád, in the province of Isfahán, Persia, the same note is sounded as it was written just at the time when the armistice bells were ringing.  It expressed the anticipation of the friends of God to see universal peace, as forecast so many years ago by Bahá'u'lláh, firmly and securely established.  However, one thing brought gloom and depression into this lively and clear atmosphere.  One incident, revealing the still prevailing grudge and antipathy of the 'ulamás and mullás for the friends of God, was the cause of grief.  A certain friend, buried with respect and ceremony by his beloved and relatives, was disinterred, his coffin was smashed to pieces, his corpse was taken out and buried directly with no wooden case whatever, this being counter to the creed and law of their faith.  From what may be judged and inferred, such sad incidents are still prevailing and causing more or less trouble and complication.  One thing is sure, however, that as the Sun of Truth gains in splendour and brilliancy, the bats and owls proportionately double their vain and fruitless activities until they are assured of their helplessness and incompetence.
__________
13 February 1919.
My dear Ahmad,
The call of 'Abdu'l-Bahá bidding the friends of God to arise in one accord, to fling away, the garb of concealment and to deliver the divine message has resounded throughout all regions and has propagated its waves to countries hitherto the bulwark of conservatism.  The city of Damascus, upon which a new era has dawned has shaken off her somnolence and, thanks to the activity of a few enthusiastic friends, has awakened to the spirit of the new age.  The prominent figure among its friends has attained the court of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's presence and has brought with him many a good news.  When the permission to visit the holy sites was granted to our eager visitor, Hájí Muhammad Yazdí the means of facility were miraculously provided.  Within an exceptionally short period of time he secured his pass, was assigned a comfortable and uncrowded compartment in the train, enjoyed splendid weather and sunshine all throughout his travel, the latter lasting only ten hours-an exceptionally swift and comfortable journey.
This morning he was ushered into 'Abdu'l-Bahá's presence and the first thing he did was to offer a supplication from an erudite Arab, a native of Medina, an influential and responsible personage in Damascus, an authority in the Muslim creed, who had been attracted and moved to write to 'Abdu'l-Bahá as a result of the interview and discussions with Shaykh 'Alí 'Askar, that seemingly cold, indifferent and powerless soul.  The believers are stirred with this appeal to spread the message and to be engaged in the diffusion of divine fragrances.  The able and well-versed sons of Shaykh Murád who has had the matchless honour to visit the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh), are all well and busily engaged in the furtherance of the Cause of God.  Shaykh Badru'd-Dín and 'Abdu'l-Hájí in Homs, and Shaykh Sa'íd, the eldest, in the function of deputy-assistant of the governor of the village of Zabádánih, not far from Damascus, are each in their respective spheres trying to promote the ideals of the Kingdom.
In short, the news of our dear visitor, Áqá Hájí Muhammad-i-Yazdí, was refreshing, numerous and significant.  With a smile and a nod of appreciation 'Abdu'l-Bahá greeted every bit of news and was glad to know that a reaction from the passiveness and inactivity of the past had set in.  "Deliver the divine message with prudence and wisdom", was his recommendation to the teachers who are serving in these regions.  Having said this he arose, again welcomed our guest and regained his room to correct
page 50
the Tablets that had been revealed, leaving us with our friend whose source of news and glad tidings seemed inexhaustible.
'Abdu'l-Bahá remained in doors until 3 p.m., when Major Nott came and motored him to the house of the Commander-in-chief, Sir Edmund Allenby.  This was the second time 'Abdu'l-Bahá had called on the General and this time the conversation centred around the Cause and its progress.  Interest seems to have been stimulated and eagerness to learn more of the Truth intensified.  This time, as well as last, was particularly noted for the warmth, the reserve and the respect which characterized the conversation of General Allenby with the Master.  He is a very gentle, modest and striking figure, warm in affection, yet imposing in his manners.
Tonight a telegram received from Ahmad Lafonat in Jerusalem, fixing Major Tudor-Pole's arrival at Jerusalem on the 14th and his departure the 17th.  We will be delighted to meet again this young and active friend who is doing what he can to bring about the comfort and the satisfaction of the Beloved.
__________
14 February 1919.
Dear Ahmad,
'Abdu'l-Bahá spent the whole forenoon in correcting and signing the sixty Tablets that had been made ready during the past days and as I am dropping you these lines he is having his fortnightly hot bath which ameliorates so much his health and strengthens his physical constitution.
Tonight we had another concrete evidence of the merit and value of Major Tudor-Pole's article in the Palestine News.  Indeed, inquirers and seekers multiply with astonishing rapidity, a keen interest is aroused and a wide demand is being pressed more and more.  The contributor of the article, Miss Hiscox in Cairo and Miss Rosenberg in London, are in correspondence with many souls, most of them in active service, who desire to learn more about the Cause than this introductory article of Major Tudor-Pole presents.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was weary, tired and sleepy as a result of the heat of his bath and was intending to sleep when a slight knock at the door revealed the presence of a non-commissioned officer at the door seeking an interview.  Admittance was cordially granted and there was Private Sinclair, an Englishman, working as an assistant at the Red Cross Egyptian hospital in Haifa.  During his sojourn in Cairo, when visiting its reading room, he had come across Bahá'í literature and had thereby caught the first glimpse of the Cause.  The perusal of Major Tudor-Pole's article raised his interest to its highest pitch and henceforth he became an ardent inquirer.  From what could be gathered from his countenance, he was so lowly, so respectful, so gentle and so modest that the first words of the Beloved were to this effect:  "I am glad to meet thee for thy face is illumined, thy brow is pure, thy heart is clear and thy purpose is right."  He then took from his pocket a letter of introduction from Major Tudor-Pole, referring him to Miss Hiscox for information about Bahá'í literature and giving the address of Miss Rosenberg in London, inviting him to quaff from the fountain-head.  A search so sincere, an interest so lively, an earnestness of tone so genuine has hardly been remarked in any of the previous callers and inquirers.  In view of his earnest inquiry and his lack of any preconception, the Master spoke in detail of the main purpose of the Bahá'í teachings, the idea of peace and reconciliation, the most immediate need of mankind.  He told him the futility of men's effort to establish a lasting peace, resting on secure foundations, through material means.  Whenever such efforts have been exerted they were doomed to failure.  History affords a striking illustration.  "From what I can gather from the events during my life", said 'Abdu'l-
page 51
Bahá, "history clearly shows the wars that have been waged, the peace measures that were subsequently adopted, have proved inevitable failures.  The Crimean war and the Treaty of Paris in 1856, the Austro-Italian war of 1859; the Danish war of 1864; the Austro-Prussian war of 1866; the Franco-Prussian war of 1870; the Russo-Turkish war of 1877 and the Congress of Berlin, the Balkan war and subsequently this world war with its present Universal Peace Conference.  Wars will succeed, peace measures and pacific documents will remain dead letters unless the Word of God and His supreme power comes to exercise its influence.  Not until this is attained may lasting peace be realized."
Our attentive visitor listened and was absorbed.  He was glad to listen to this remarkable talk and was furthermore grateful to receive a copy of Mr Remey's Some Vital Bahá'í Principles which 'Abdu'l-Bahá put in his hands.  When he retired, he was inwardly moved and outwardly satisfied and assured.
__________
15 February 1919.
My dear Ahmad,
My head is in a whirl so busy and so eventful was the day.  No less than a score of callers from prince and páshá to a simple private soldier have sought interview with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Tonight again, our attracted friend, Private Sinclair of the Red Cross hospital, called.  His eyes sparkled as he shook hands with the Beloved.  He had read the pamphlet which had been given to him and was glad to receive another different one, published and edited by Mr Remey, entitled The Message of Unity.  He expressed his firm intention to correspond with the different booksellers in London, as soon as he is demobilized and thus to be able to gather more detailed information.  When he rose to take his leave, he seemed full of the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh, absorbed in meditation, and ablaze with His love.  "Thou art my son, my dear son, I love thee, and I pray for thee," were the farewell words as the Beloved embraced him and patted him on his shoulders.
Letters, or rather parcels, were today received from Port Said, London and America.  Enclosed in Mr Lutfu'lláh's letter from London, were two supplications that had been received last year from Tihrán.  They contained good news.  The Bahá'í school in Tihrán is advancing by leaps and bounds.  The Jewish Bahá'ís have established schools which are rapidly widening.  The school of Tarbíyat in Tihrán, Miss Kappes describes as by far the greatest establishment among the 430 schools in Tihrán; their public exercises were unequalled by any that have been so far held.  A pavilion was pitched and everybody, high and low, nearby and distant, heard of its fame and responded to its call.  In Yazd meetings of different character, each of no less than 60 to 70 attendants were organized.  A great deal of effort has been expended of late to help the descendants and relatives of the glorious martyrs of Yazd.  Vast contributions have been gathered and the tombs of the martyred are being beautifully erected, immune from any further aggression or danger and becoming the object of the pilgrimage of many a soul.  In Yazd also the maid-servants of God have risen and are overshadowing (or rather have foreshadowed) the men in their spiritual activities.  Of Káshán, the writer relates, "I had thought of it a mount of snow but later on I found it an active volcano.  The friends were aflame with the fire of the Word of God."
From Jaffa has come a devoted friend, by the name of 'Alí Effendi, who brings with him the news of the welfare of 'Abdu's-Samad who has moved to Jaffa and is now settled.  Both of them are enkindled and both are favoured by the Beloved.
Tonight, around the Master's table for supper sat Messrs Ahmad Yazdí,
page 52
Hájí Muhammad Yazdí, Mírzá Husayn Yazdí, Áqá Muhammad Taqí, three of the Pársí friends of Adasíyyih who have recently arrived, Badí' Effendi and my father.  The Master was tired and did not converse long.
Major Tudor-Pole, due to a slight indisposition has had to postpone his departure from Cairo, but, thank God, his illness is accidental and not at all serious.
__________
16 February 1919.
My dear Ahmad,
From among the supplications recently received is one that is most significant and of particular interest as it emanates from a Greek friend who is one of the few, if not the only of her race, that has responded to the call of the Kingdom.  Let me share with you its contents:  "Our father, I am very, glad because I am the first of the Greeks to believe in your name.  Many years ago my heart was broken because my life was full of bitterness.  I don't know why fortune is so sad for me.  Perhaps sometimes I am very whimsical, and of course the good Father sends punishment; however, I think otherwise with so much bitterness that I have every day.  But I make my sweet prayers and then my feelings are at rest.  I love God and I believe in the Father and I believe in the Apostles of God.  O dear Father, how could I do otherwise than believe in you because many times my mind is so tired, but when I take your picture, and I read one of your prayers, I feel just like a bird when it rains, and its feathers are wet and it cannot fly, but when the sun's rays come out, is happy and flies from tree to tree-exactly [as] I feel every minute when I make my prayers in your name.  I shall not stop all my life, until I am an apostle for your name, to my people.  (Signed) Aspasia Diamesis, Chicago."
Behind this broken language and this urbane style is revealed a heart loving, compassionate and full with the joy of faith and the gratitude of assurance.  She begs enlightenment and guidance for her people and appreciates the supreme favour that divine Providence has bestowed upon her.  What the response of the Beloved will be, or rather how far the Lord's favour and blessing will surround her, is one that we can hardly venture to forecast, but one thing is sure, that the Tablet that will be revealed to this soul will act as a mighty impetus in awakening the Greek people to this call.
This morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá went out for a long walk and returned an hour before noon, when he resumed his work which consisted mainly of the perusal of detailed supplications from Persia.  I had a long interview this morning with Áqá Muhammad Taqí covering a wide range of topics which were mostly related to the activity of the Egyptian friends and the news he had received from abroad during the war.  From Ishqábád, in Russian Turkistán, letters had come which revealed the safety of the friends in that tumultuous region.  He had been in constant correspondence with the Indian friends whose activity he highly commented upon and whose services he praised.  It was on the whole a very profitable and interesting hour.
__________
17 February 1919.
My dear Ahmad,
A day of jubilee is ahead of us.  The arrival of a group of the Pársí friends of Adasíyyih, including men and women, has not been without a definite purpose.  Another marriage festivity is to take place between Shahrey,40 the son of Jamshid the Pársí, and the daughter (the eldest) of a Tamal,41 who has been living for many years in the vicinity of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The circle of the Adasíyyih friends is ever widening and the experiences along such lines has proved to be of great value and benefit.  Preparations are now being made for that day and everybody is looking forward to the
page 53
celebration, the first of that kind since the extinction of the fire of war.
This morning Áqá Ahmad Yazdí, his elder brother and Áqá Muhammad Taqí Isfahání were called to the Beloved's presence.  Tea was served and everybody assumed almost an uninterrupted silence for 'Abdu'l-Bahá was all throughout perusing the supplications of the Egyptian friends, which had recently arrived.  Supplications from every corner of the globe, of different length and character, written in different languages, enclosing clippings of papers, pamphlets, typewritten reports, petitions, etc., are ceaselessly pouring in and the time for their perusal is sufficient to exhaust all the time that one might possibly have at his disposal.  Although the ways have not yet fully opened and communication with all parts has not yet been restored, one is baffled at the amount of letters, books and magazines that the post office daily delivers.
A joint supplication from a group of the Alexandria friends has been received today.  The same note is struck and the same chorus is repeated-namely, rejoicing at the news from the Beloved and begging his confirmation.  Although these friends have not multiplied as fast as their fellow brethren in Port Said yet they have maintained all throughout these trying times an esprit de corps necessary to give tem the initiative in their future activities.
A letter from Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání from Bombay to Hájí Mírzá Haydar 'Alí reveals the great longing of the Pársí friends to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whether this takes place in the Holy Land or in India.  The writer, who has been recently granted the permission to visit the holy sites, and has been journeying throughout the centre of India, had been in Rangoon and was there confirmed in manifold services to the Kingdom of Abhá.  His letter, however, contained sad and unexpected news, namely, the passing away of Áqá Siyyid Mihdí of Rangoon and his son, who were both active and tireless workers in the Cause.  Assuredly their station in the realm beyond is a lofty one and their reward abundant and glorious.
__________
Bahjí, 'Akká.
18 February 1919.
My dear Ahmad,
Greetings with sweetest remembrances to you, my far-off friend, from this hallowed spot!  From this solitary plain of Bahjí, in this solemn solitude, away from life's tumult and bustle, I take the pen in remembrance of a friend with whom I passed many days in this quiet, yet inspiring region.  The Beloved has again decided to tarry for a time at the vicinity of the tomb of his father.  Here he is, in the adjoining room, sitting by the candle light, viewing from his window the solitude from afar, the silent surroundings, which nothing breaks save the distant roar of the waves which die away in the immensity of space.  He is engaged in his meditations, absorbed in his prayers, thinking of his friends across the seas, remembering their prayers and their supplications and communing with his heavenly Father on behalf of such souls.  What a vivid contrast does this vicinity of the Holy Tomb represent with the increasing activity of the life in Haifa.  The air over there was filled with gases and vapours which steam and motor engines continuously discharge, while the atmosphere here is as pure, as clear and as fragrant as it can be.  The traffic accompanied with its deafening noise and bustle, gives way here to a stillness, a calmness and a quietude which nothing interrupts but the stillness of nature.  The dazzling lights of the city are gone and nothing but a flickering taper's light cheers this cold and starless night.  The constant movement and circulation witnessed in the Beloved's house has stopped, and tonight everything is at a stand still, everything quiet and at rest.  The morning hour of prayer is maintained and even length-
page 54
ened for twice a day, the Beloved visits the holy shrine, kneels in reverence and devotion, orders communes to be chanted and often spends an hour or more in silent prayer.  His attendants, friends and relatives are absent and no one save Khusraw, Isfandíyár and myself, the two vigilant guardians of the Tomb, and 'Alí Eff, a friend who will leave tomorrow for Beirut, form his small retinue.
Everything, the environment, the atmosphere, the view, the stillness, all are uplifting, elevating and inspiring.  One feels to have forgotten his cares and his concerns, his mind is refreshed and his burden alleviated.  No matter how long the Master will tarry in this sanctified place, no feeling of monotony, and ennui overcomes the soul.  It is the Spot which so many souls crave to attain and long to visit.  Particularly is it magnificent at such a time when nature is smiling, the sky above is no more gloomy and threatening with clouds but serene and blue, the plains and meadows as if covered with a multi-coloured carpet, the shrubs sparkling with roses, jasmines, lilies, narcissus embalming the pure and refreshing air; the grass growing luxuriantly everywhere and the breeze wafting in every direction.  Often is the Beloved seen in the open air, majestically walking to and fro upon the verdant plains and amid the wild flowers that abound in this gifted region.  He treads the same ground that the blessed feet of his heavenly Father have trodden, circumambulate the shrine where for many years He has lived, waters the flowers and plants, many of which have been blessed by His hands and lives and moves and has his being in an atmosphere which fully reminds him of His manners and His conduct.  What a dear and blessed spot to be privileged to live in!
Shoghi Rabbání.
(To be continued)


XI:3, 28 April 1920
page 54
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Jean Masson
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Jean Masson, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou faithful maid-servant of the Blessed Beauty!
The article thou hadst previously sent was highly acceptable, accomplished, well prepared and well presented.  Verily, it was a very eloquent article.  At present whoever among the friends may write an article and may wish to publish it, it is better that he should submit it to the Executive Board and, after its approval, give it publicity.  Assuredly, the articles thou writest are suitable, correct and valuable for publication, but nevertheless the purpose of the approval of the Executive Board is to preserve order, for, otherwise, others may print and publish articles which may be not conforming with truth.  That is why I write that articles should be first submitted and approved by the Executive Board and then be published.
Dr Wilson, the missionary in Persia, is heedless and detests the Cause of God, and has written a book in order to lead the people to error.  His book is likened to those books that have been written, during the time of Christ and subsequent to him, by the Pharisees and the Roman philosophers, in order to refute his truth.  He has published that book and it is preferable that at present thou shouldst write, print and publish a refutatory book written in the utmost eloquence and perfection.
Exercise thou, in my behalf, the utmost kindness to thy sister.  I ask for her-healing.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.


XI:5, 5 June 1920
page 83
(From the New York American, 23 May 1920.)
Bahá'í Temple strikes new art note
Louis Bourgeois' model for $1,500,000 structure combines essence of all architectural systems.
By Peyton Boswell
On the shore of Lake Michigan, just a little ways north of Chicago, the Bahá'í Movement is soon to begin the erection of a Temple of Peace.  Many persons who have seen the model for this building, which is the work of the architect and sculptor, Louis Bourgeois, say that the great Temple will be the most beautiful modern structure in the world.  Some go so far as to say that it will be the most beautiful structure ever erected.  A large model of the Temple, filling almost an entire room, is now on exhibition at the Kevorkian Galleries, No. 40 West Fifty-seventh Street.
The Bahá'í Temple of Peace, whose doors will never close, day or night, and in which every person may worship, will cost about $1,500,000.  Its outer covering will be of cream coloured terra cotta.  It will be 225 feet in diameter and 180 feet high.
Mr Bourgeois' model was selected by a committee of forty-nine.  This committee was ready to approve the design, but because the structure differed from any other building that had ever been erected, they felt that they needed guidance, before making the formal acceptance, from an architect who could tell them whether it was practical.
They called in Mr H. Van Buren Magonigle, president of the Architectural League.  Without being apprised of the preference of the committee, Mr Magonigle studied all the models submitted and quickly selected that of Mr Bourgeois.  His verdict was: "It is the first new idea in architecture since the thirteenth century.  I want to see it erected."
The Bahá'í Temple of Peace combines within itself all the lovely elements of all the types of architecture that man has ever devised.  This may at first sound rather discouraging to students of art who know how inspirationless eclectic works usually are.  If a painter tries to combine all the good points of all the schools of painting he invariably gets a picture that is tame and uninteresting.  It is the individual method that counts.
But, after looking at Mr Bourgeois' model for his beautiful Temple, listen to him explain, in a voice trembling with enthusiasm, just how he came to combine all styles of architecture in his design
"The Bahá'í Movement," says Mr Bourgeois, "is a fusing of the essential spiritual elements of all religions and all philosophies.  Stripped of the personalities of their founders and subsequent leaders, all sects are found to have very much the same divine basis.  All the teachings that have held the minds of men and ennobled them are
page 84
found to be very much alike in essence.  The doctrines of Christ, of Buddha and of Muhammad greatly resemble each other.  As with religions so it is with architecture.  If you resolve the different architectural systems to their idealistic basis, laying aside all extreme forms, you will see that they harmonize so perfectly that they can be blended without one discordant note.  That is what I have tried to do in the Temple of Peace-to combine all architectural modes into a symbol of the Bahá'í Movement."
With a burst of enthusiasm the sculptor-architect declares:  "It is Bahá'u'lláh's Temple.  I am only the channel through which it came!"
In its general shape the Temple gives one the feeling of a spiritual symbol arising with an inevitable fitness, from the very earth.
The first story breathes the spirit of welcome.  It is in the form of a nine-pointed star.  Nine circular exedras42 curve into the building, with a great doorway in the centre of each, so that from whatever side one approaches, the structure seems to extend its arms in welcome and embrace.  The first story in its simplicity suggests the Greek and Egyptian temples, while the treatment of the doors and windows is Romanesque in form, and the intricacy and beauty of the ornamentation suggests the Gothic and the Arabic.
The second story, beautiful in its windowed elegance, is renaissance in line, but purely Gothic in the interlaced arches of its openings.
The third story is renaissance in feeling, restful and quiet.  Above it rises the lovely dome, which suggest the Byzantine, while above the closed top is a unique feature-the beams of the dome arising like hands clasped in prayer, so as to give the feeling of ascension and aspiration found only in Gothic towers.
An intricate system of ornamentation covers the columns, surrounds the windows and doors and comprises the dome itself, and in this one deciphers symbols of all the religions of the world, interlacing and blending perfectly.
Here are the swastika cross, most ancient of all; the circle; the triangle; the double triangle, known as Solomon's seal, the symbol of the sun, the five-pointed star representing the Man-Saviour,43 be He called Christ, Buddha or Muhammad; the Christian cross; the Greek cross, and finally, the Bahá'í symbol of the nine-pointed star.44
There is a very human side to the modelling of the Temple of Peace.  Mr Bourgeois has had the Temple in mind for nine years, but it never began to take definite form until four years ago, after he had attended the convention of the Bahá'í Movement in Boston.  Then, suddenly, in an hour's time, the architect sketched the lower story of the Temple.  At first he thought he could model the structure in three months, but he found that, so colossal was the task, that it took three years.
Now the architect is not rich, and he realized that if he worked at his model the family income would cease.  His wife is also an artist, but, sympathizing with his work, she bought a little store in West Englewood, New Jersey, where they live, and while he worked with the plaster, she sold ice cream and candy and other wares to the people of the community.
When he needed plaster for his first carving and was out of money, he went into the garden, filled his wife's clothes basket with Dorothy Perkins roses, which covered the arbour, carried them to New York and sold them for five dollars, with which he bought the needed material.
He says his wife is really the "Temple builder"; for, had it not been for her sympathy and cheerful sacrifice, he never would have carried to completion the gigantic work.
The Bahá'í Movement will surround the great Temple with a community that will
page 85
conform with it in spirit, for on the shore of Lake Michigan, around the beautiful grounds, will be erected a series of buildings devoted to the application of true religion to life-a hospital, an orphan asylum, a hospice or house of hospitality, a guild house and a university, among other enterprises.


XI:5, 5 June 1920
page 85
Persian-Indian style of architecture
As explained by Charles Mason Remey, who submitted a model at the Twelfth Annual Convention of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
As one becomes familiar with the Bahá'í Teaching and its principles and as one seeks to apply these in his life it is the most natural thing in the world that he should desire to express these principles and religious ideals in the terms and language of his own art, craft or profession.  As with countless others such was my own experience.  Since my connection with the Bahá'í Cause, during the past twenty years, in the pursuance of my study of architecture at home and abroad in many parts of the world, I have had constantly in mind the great Bahá'í Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, the first of its kind to be erected in America, my desire being that I might be able to express in terms of architecture an offering toward this great temple.
This absorbing interest has led me, during the past twelve years to make a series of architectural studies and preliminary designs for this edifice showing treatments of varying dimensions in nine different styles of architecture.  These were offered to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the hope that this work might be of some service when the time arrived for the formulation of a building design for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
When the word was received from 'Abdu'l-Bahá that a choice of designs submitted for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was to be made by the delegates seated in this Twelfth Annual Convention of Bahá'ís in America held in New York, 26-28 April 1920, I felt moved to make, in addition to the drawings already mentioned, a set of models of the one of my designs which was done in the Persian-Indian style in order to present to the Convention in as graphic and as concrete a manner as possible the salient features of this design, which, in my estimation, so far as I now understand the matter as viewed from points both practical and spiritual, is, I feel, the best suited of my preliminary studies to meet this present problem.  With the exception of this design in the Persian-Indian style, which is of quite modest dimensions, each of my other eight designs are too large in size and of too costly construction to be considered.  Moreover, with the exception of the Arabian, Moorish and Persian designs, the others were not sufficiently oriental in character to satisfy the requirements of the problem in hand.  Therefore between these practical and aesthetic conditions there seemed to us to be but this one of my designs to feature.
Since 'Abdu'l-Bahá ordered the Convention to choose one from among the designs which had been offered for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, I did not deem it advisable to prepare any new designs, nor to alter those which I had previously made.  The models and the large drawings of this Persian-Indian design, which I am offering together with my first drawings, are merely enlargements and developments of the original design.  There have been no changes in the style of the design, its treatment or dimensions.
While engaged in this work my concept of an architectural treatment for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár underwent many changes and modifications.  In considering a style for the first design made, the Byzantine then suggested itself to
page 86
me as combining in one complete and developed style of architecture, the characters of both the orient and the occident.  Later on in the work I made studies in various other styles from the classic to the ultra-modern which work included some of the styles of the orient.  Toward the close of this study I received an excerpt from a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's addressed to Mrs Kate Ives in which he mentioned the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár as follows:
"That Divine Form manifested itself in America and entered the great Temple which shall soon be constructed therein.  This glorious Temple resembles the oriental edifices and soon you will see it erected there with a most solid foundation and strongest basis."
Furthermore, I learned it was reported that 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed a picture of the Taj Mahal to Mr P___ W___, suggesting that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár have a similar entrance.
These words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá quite revolutionized my thought regarding the style for this first great Bahá'í Temple to be erected here in the west.  With time and more study the architecture of the orient has made its appeal more and more to me as being the best suited of all styles as a foundation for, and a first step toward, the universal style of world architecture eventually to find its perfect development in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of future generations.  I have been pleased to note latterly that the majority of the people who have seen my preliminary drawings have expressed a preference for the Persian and the Persian-Indian styles.
The Persian style of architecture was developed under the influence brought into Persia by the early Muslim civilization.  Some of its grandest applications are found in the mosques of Isfahán, Qum, Káshán, and Qazvín, while the same style is found in these and other cities, successfully applied to such buildings as bazaars, caravansaries, palaces, colleges, gateways, bridges, and other civic structures.
The lower wall surfaces of the more elegant of these buildings are often revetted with slabs of marble, while the main walls and upper parts are usually in stone, brick, terra cotta, and brightly coloured tiles.  Though some of these buildings have stood for centuries, the colouring in many instances remains quite fresh and even brilliant.
The richness in colour decoration of the domes and minarets of the Persian mosques, rising from a foreground of gardens and silhouetted against a cloudless sky, is memorable and very beautiful.  This style of decoration, so in harmony with its oriental environment,
page 87
has a charm of its own, to which many Persian writers, as well as foreigners travelling in that country, have testified.
The Indian style of architecture, which is an adaptation of the Persian style, had its development during the Mogul rule in India.  Some of the finest examples of this style are found in the vicinity of Delhi, India's ancient capital, while the world-famous Taj Mahal near the city of Agra, is without doubt the best known and by many the most admired building of the epoch.
The Taj Mahal is finished within and without with white marble inlaid with jasper, lapis lazuli, and other semi-precious stones.  It is surrounded by a garden intersected by waterways separated by richly coloured flowers and foliage, and produces an effect of beauty beyond the power of words to describe.


XI:5, 5 June 1920
page 87
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
To his honour, Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, New York City-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of the Holy Threshold!  Praise be to God, that the events of the Cause from the East and the West are conducive to the utmost rejoicing.  The fame of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh has encircled the orient and the occident, and the voice of the promotion of the Cause has reached the Supreme Concourse.
According to what they have written from California, you have become fully confirmed in service in that region.  This is the result of the promise that I have made to thee.  Today, whosoever is a herald of the Covenant, he becomes triumphant and victorious by the cohorts of the Orb of Regions and is honoured and the object of the glances of mercifulness.  God willing, the event of your wedding, ere long, will likewise come to pass.  In Convention this year it must be unquestionably solemnized.
The School of Tarbíyat used to receive some assistance from the American friends.  Undoubtedly, you have this matter in mind.  If a contribution could be forwarded through the Convention, it would be very acceptable.
Thou hast written that if a Persian teacher could come to those states and travel for awhile, it would be most timely; therefore we have written to Persia and ere long a ripened soul with an interpreter will be forwarded, so that for a time he may make a tour throughout America and then return.  Undoubtedly in their reception you will demonstrate the utmost magnanimity.
Likewise, yourself, at the opportune time, travel throughout all the states and with the utmost exhilaration and tumult raise the call of the Covenant, thus the favours of the Orb of Regions may encircle the globe.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 27 March 1920, Washington, D.C.
__________
[Portion of a Tablet received by Mrs Ella G. Cooper of San Francisco, California, in regard to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb's trip in the West]
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved daughter!
Thy detailed letter, dated 7 December 1919, written to Shoghi Effendi, was received.  Its contents produced the utmost rejoicing for it was indicative of the promotion of the divine teachings and the attraction of the hearts to the Kingdom of the Lord of Hosts.  Likewise, the power and might which became manifest from Áqá Mírzá Ahmad in the diffusion of the teachings and the promulgation of the Word of God.  This is purely through the confirmations of God and the help and assistance of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh.
Consider ye, that a youth from Persia,
page 88
who has not studied sciences and arts, nor is he informed of the political, economic and social problems, nor is he acquainted with all the conditions of the east and the west-notwithstanding this, he delivers irrefutable lectures before vast audiences and imparts exhilaration and motion to the souls.  This is no other save through the confirmations of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh.  This is evident and manifest.  No soul can deny it.  For the bestowals of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh, and the power of His Covenant, will make a drop an ocean, the mosquito the eagle soaring toward the Supreme Concourse, the tender plant the blessed tree, the weak child the powerful man, the mustard seed the towering mountain, and the unknown well known throughout all the regions.  In short, all these are through the outpourings of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh, and the power of the Covenant, otherwise what existence have we?
Praise be to God, that California is in motion and attraction and the souls enamoured with the Kingdom of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
To his honour Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb and his respected wife-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye son and daughter of the Kingdom!
According to what you have written, spiritual connections are established between you, and you are contemplating to enter the world of matrimony and become each other's associate.  It is my hope that this union become eternal; both of you harmonized on the physical and spiritual planes and become one in the exoteric and esoteric45 realms;-so that you may spend your days together
page 89
with the utmost joy and happiness and be engaged in the glorification of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh, because He has brought into perfect mutual affiliation both the East and the West and has established such a divine communication between Persia and America, that a Persian and an American have become the expression of one soul.
In brief, I supplicate for you confirmation and assistance so that ideal affinity be unveiled between you, both of you be occupied with the services of the Cause of God and be aided and confirmed.  You must strive to establish between yourselves such an affinity and love that you may become the object of envy to all mankind and your wedding may serve as an example, so that similar unions may come to pass very frequently.
Recite ye together the following prayer:
O God!  O God!  We are married for the love of Thy beauty, longing for the fulfilment of Thy good pleasure and yearning to devote our lives to Thy service.  O Lord!  Suffer our bodies to become one body, our spirits the expression of one spirit and assist us with Thy confirmations-so that we may arise wholly to perform Thy services, be detached from aught else save Thee, firm in Thy Covenant and Testament and freed from all else save Thy love.  O Lord!  Assist us with all these Thy favours.
Verily Thou art the Confirmer, the Powerful, the Mighty and the Omnipresent!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, May 7, 1920, New York City.


XI:5, 5 June 1920
page 90
Recent Tablet to Pauline Hannen
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in eulogy of and supplication for Joseph H. Hannen.
To the beloved daughter, Mrs Hannen, Washington, D.C.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O Thou Compassionate Lord!
Thou knowest the magnitude of my sorrow as I engage in this following supplication.  The favoured servant of the Kingdom, Mr Hannen, that pure and spotless soul, was the first self-sacrificing person in the path of the Merciful One.  At night he was restless and during the day he was untiring.  Not a moment did he rest and all his lifetime was consecrated to the service of the Kingdom.  In the assemblage of Thy friends he was an active member and in the gathering
page 91
of Thy favoured ones an enkindled torch.  In the horizon of guidance he twinkled like a radiant star and in the Abhá Paradise he appeared a magnificent palm.  He was an illumined soul, merciful, kingly, lordly.
At present that bright candle has been extinguished in the globe of this mortal world that thereby it may shine resplendently in the globe of the Kingdom.  That radiant star has set from this world below that it may rise effulgently from the Supreme Horizon.
O Thou Forgiving Lord!
Set up this esteemed soul in Thy glorious Kingdom upon the thrones of everlasting sovereignty and make him a heavenly prince.  Help him to soar in the limitless realm and draw him unto the close companionship of heavenly birds in the hidden world.  Immerse him in the ocean of Light, and make him the prince over the Realm of Mysteries.  Bring him unto the effulgent concourse and help him to attain his object in the realm of Thy presence and the heights of the Supreme Concourse.
Thou art the Forgiver, the Pardoner, and the Compassionate!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
This calamity is overwhelming and painful, and undoubtedly its effects are most severe.  A thousand times alas, that like unto a star, that glorious personage disappeared from the horizon of the immensity of space.  He has arisen from a horizon that knows no setting and has hastened unto a realm that is infinite.  He has been detached from this world below and has attained unto Everlasting Life.  He has ascended from this gloomy world and hastened to the Centre of Light.
Grieve not therefore and be not despondent.  Enkindle his lamp and strive that the orchard of his highest wish may abound with fruitful trees.  Rest thou assured in the bounties of the Lord of Hosts and endeavour to be confirmed by the favours of the glorious Lord.  If he has disappeared from this plane, grieve not, for thou shalt find him in the divine realm.  Be not sad at this temporary separation, thou shalt enjoy eternal companionship in the realm above.  Be thou therefore patient and forbearing, firm and assured.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 19 March 1920.


XI:5, 5 June 1920
page 91
Recent Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to American Bahá'ís
Dr Charles Hall
To his honour, Dr Charles Hall, Chicago, Illinois-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  Its contents were lofty and sublime and its aim was high and wide-reaching.  The world of humanity is in need of a great amelioration for it is a material jungle wherein fruitless trees are flourishing and useless weeds are abounding.  If there is at all a fruitful tree, it is overshadowed by the fruitless ones and if a flower grows in its midst it is hidden and concealed.  The world of mankind is in need of expert gardeners that they may convert those forests into delectable rose-gardens, may substitute for these fruitless trees, trees that yield fruit and may replace these useless weeds by roses and fragrant herbs.  Thus active souls and vigilant people are day and night restless.  They strive until they are closely attached to the divine Kingdom and thereby become the manifestations of infinite bounties and the ideal gardeners of these forests.  Thus the world of humanity will be wholly transformed and the merciful bounties become manifest.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 26 July 1919.
page 92
Louis G. Gregory
To his honour, Mr Louis Gregory, care of his honour, Mr Hannen, Washington, D.C.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letters were received.  Verily, thou hast laboured hard in this year's Convention and hast served beyond thine own endurance.  Thou hast moreover, travelled before and subsequent to the sittings of the Convention, hast served by other ways and means, art ever restless and active and hast, with thy respected wife, consecrated thy life to the service of the Kingdom.  Undoubtedly thou shalt be confirmed and assisted.
Strive with heart and soul in order to bring about union and harmony among the white and the coloured and prove thereby the unity of the Bahá'í world wherein distinction of colour finds no place, but where hearts only are considered.  Praise be to God, the hearts of the friends are united and linked together, whether they be from the orient or the occident, from north or from south, whether they be German, French, Japanese, American, and whether they pertain to the white, the black, the red, the yellow or the brown race.  Variations of colour, of land and of race are of no importance in the Bahá'í Movement; on the contrary, Bahá'í unity overcomes them all and does away with all these fancies and imaginations.
Convey on my behalf to thy fellow-traveller, Mr Roy Williams, the utmost kindness.  I am greatly pleased with him and my hope is that in the future he may be greatly confirmed.  Extend on my behalf much kindness to thy respected wife.  I never forget her and she is ever in my memory.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 24 July 1919.


XI:6, 24 June 1920
page 104
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Fruitport Assembly
To the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, Fruitport, Michigan, care of his honour Mr Nels Peterson-Upon them by Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye who are firm in the Covenant!
Today whatever assembly is established that has for its purpose the welfare of mankind and is attached to the invocation of God, that gathering is a celestial one.  Undoubtedly, it shall become the recipient of the blessings and bounty of Divine Providence.  It is under the protection of the Lord of the Kingdom, the confirmations and assistance shall encircle it from every side and it shall grow more illumined day by day.
This, however, is conditioned upon firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and the Testament, that it should not fall short in its duties, should not fail to live up to its standard and should display a powerful will and perfect steadfastness.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.


XI:7, 13 July 1920
page 105
Extract of a Tablet to an Assembly
O ye who are firm in the Covenant of the Self-Subsistent, Eternal God!  Praise God with glad faces, for the favours ye have received and for the gifts which have come successively to ye; for the mercy which has preceded ye, for the blessings which have been fulfilled, and for the gifts which have been assigned unto ye.  Verily, ye have attained unto that for which holy men and spiritual women have earnestly longed.  Seize the opportunity and use your utmost energy to kindle the fire of the love of God, to publish the knowledge of God, to diffuse the Spirit of God, and the fragrances of the breaths of God, to cause the penetration of the Word of God.
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet revealed for Hoboken Assembly of Bahá'ís, New Jersey.


XI:7, 13 July 1920
page 107
A Bahá'í pilgrimage to South America
Compiled from letters written by Miss Martha Root while enroute.
Feeling the urge to go to South America to spread the Bahá'í Message, Miss Martha Root, of Cambridge Springs, Pa., rose up to obey.  Coming to New York, the second evening at a home where she talked on the Bahá'í Cause, the head of a newspaper syndicate met her and asked her to sell him her articles from South America.  This syndicate sends out its stories to over one hundred newspapers.  As a courtesy they, at the same time, sent broadcast a short article of three hundred words on the Bahá'í Revelation.
Expecting to sail 21 June 1919, it was 22 July when the ship finally sailed, some Chinese sailors being brought out to take the place of striking American seamen.  The ship had stood out at the Statue of Liberty eight days.
After real illness from intense fatigue, the strain of the strike and the knowledge that many of the passengers spoke a different language spiritually-smoking, drinking, bridge and poker-Miss Root did not try to solve her problem of giving the Message for two days.  Her thought was that she of all people was the least fitted to meet such a group.  She did not dance or play cards, neither was she an enthusiastic sportswoman.
Reading the Creative Word, every line seemed a path for her to follow:
"Let not conventionality cause you to seem cold and unsympathetic when you meet strange people from other countries-be kind to the strangers ... help them to feel at home ... ask if you may render them any service ... try to make their lives a little happier ... let those who meet you know without your proclaiming the fact that you are indeed a Bahá'í."  Again, "If we are true Bahá'ís, speech is not needed ... our actions will help on the world, will spread civilization, will help the progress of science, and cause the arts to develop ... it is not by lip service only that the elect of God have attained to holiness, but by patient lives of active service they have brought the Light into the world."
Many of the Bahá'í friends had given gifts to Miss Root.  These were distributed for the comfort of others.  The passengers represented inhabitants from Bahia, Argentina, Para, Uruguay, Paraguay and business men from Great Britain, Denmark and the United States.  Probably a third were Catholics, there was one bishop of a Protestant church commissioned to use a million and a half dollars in spreading his work; there were four Christian Scientists, some other people of various faiths, but the majority were not visibly interested in the life of the Spirit.
Miss Root, after serving everybody and praying for capacity to serve more intelligently and lovingly, received her first opportunity about in this way:  All the men had put up money to buy prizes for the sports.  She took the best small article in her apparel, did it up as nearly as she could in the artistic fashion in which the Japanese present gifts, and took it to the sports committee to be used as a prize.  It was the only wom-
page 108
an's gift.  She explained too, that she did not know much about sports, but would join the "family party" and go in for all but the heavy weight contest.  [Miss Root is of small and slender stature.]
The next day being the first Sunday at sea, Miss Root asked the captain's permission to speak in the evening on the Bahá'í Cause.  The purser put up a large notice on the bulletin board.  No person aboard had heard of the Bahá'í Movement.  The men on the sports committee were the first ones to enter the music room; they helped to make it popular, and every one invited everyone else.  All came except a few Catholics and one other young man.
This "one other man" had received a blue booklet46 the first day.  Once he talked for five hours and another time four hours about the Cause.  Drawing the blue booklet from his pocket he said:  "I have read this not once or twice, but three times, and it is too Utopian, it will never work out."  This man has many men under him, he has tried to inaugurate equality systems and every time the men took advantage, giving him poorer work, so he has gone back to his old stern way with them.  He is so near the Kingdom: so fine in his sterling qualities, but just now he doubts people and movements.  At the end of every talk he said, "O, I wish I could believe in this as you do.  I wish people lived this way."
The captain, purser and several officers came to the talk.  The ship pitched so that Miss Root had to hold on to a pillar with one hand while she spoke.  After the talk of over an hour, the purser made a little speech of thanks.  Then after dismissal the bishop took the floor and spoke against the Bahá'í Cause.  Not that he had ever heard of it before, but he said one could never be a Christian and believe in these other religions too.  Miss Root replied to him point by point and from that evening they became friendly.  His very arguments against the Movement later made friends for it.  Some young men students also began asking intelligent questions.  A little group of onlookers at the discussion said, "When you folk have any more interesting explanations like this, be sure and let us in on them."
This evening lecture so early in the voyage opened the way for many quiet talks on deck.  The next morning one Christian Scientist said, "Your talk make a great impression, even the 'beer bums' say it is a good kind of religion."  The drinking of this ship is extraordinary.  "The grave diggers" and "gentlemen drunkards", as the girls call them congregate around the bar at intervals from 6 a.m. to 2 a.m.  Miss Root's room was right across from the bar, this and the fact that her delightful happy-go-lucky roommate had two monkeys, made her understand what 'Abdu'l-Bahá meant in her Tablet,47 "That thou mayest forget rest and composure."  These men were bright and represented some of the largest business concerns in the world; they could carry the Message to over fifty millions of people in South America.  In talks on deck one learned some of them had religious parents, one or two had been started in ministerial schools, but had broken away from their religion.  All had good qualities and manifested some fine traits.
Next morning following the Bahá'í talk, Miss Root just in fun, read a passenger's hand.  Everybody rushed over and wanted their palms read.  The captain lined them up to take their turns and held out his own hand first.  All day the palm reading continued, even every steward had his turn, and last of all, Snowball, the dear little Barbados boy bugler, came and held out his
page 109
chubby black hands.  Miss Root had studied palmistry a little before she was a Bahá'í and while there is not much in it, 'Abdu'l-Bahá says that the lines of the hands undoubtedly do show something of the character of the individual.  Anyway it helped her to get acquainted quickly, and three days later the captain challenged her before the crowd:  "I bet you cannot read my hand exactly the same a second time.  If you prove you can I will put it on the records of the ship among the distinguished passengers that you are the first Bahá'í ever to ride over these lines, and that they can find out all about what a Bahá'í is by reading the book (Thornton Chase's The Bahá'í Revelation) you put in the ship's library.  Miss Root called his bluff and read his palm exactly the same in the second instance.
Some of the passengers were agnostics.  The Christian Scientist said, "My belief is so precious to me, I would not profane it by talking it over with people who would not appreciate it."  Even aboard this ship, the conversation with all types of passengers showed that people were ready to hear.  Often the ones that the Bahá'í would expect to accept it, fell back to sleep, and the ones that appeared to be fast asleep, woke up.  If one can forget one's own poor capacity and stand evanescent Bahá'u'lláh can speak.  It may help other Bahá'í teachers to use the prayer revealed for 'Abu'l-Fadl:  "I pray Thee by the effulgence of the sun of Thy beneficence and by the waves of the sea of Thy generosity, to put into my words and utterances a trace of the traces of Thy Supreme Word, so that the reality of all things may be attracted and drawn."
The words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Divine Plan came to Miss Root every day of the journey:  "O how I long that it would be made possible for me to travel through these parts, even if necessary on foot, and with the utmost of poverty and while passing through the cities, villages, mountains, deserts and oceans, cry at the top of my voice, 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!' and promote the divine teachings.  But now this is not feasible for me, therefore I live in great regret.  Perchance, God willing, ye may become assisted therein."
The blue booklets were not given out that first Sunday evening.  It seemed better to wait for friends to ask for them.  A young Western business woman going to Paraguay for a second period of three years' work took several Bahá'í books and an Esperanto book which Miss Root gave her.  Some Bahia Catholics read the booklet.  A young man from Montevideo, Uruguay, said Uruguay had made the most progress of any country in South America, and one of the principal causes was that the people had become free thinkers.  Passengers from Bahia and Montevideo asked her to be their guest.  Every soul proved a friend.
It was indeed a family party.  The chief steward said:  "Why do you not tell our help about this religion?"-and he complimented it.  These stewards were told about the Cause, and the Chinese sailors had the Message sent to them.  At the fancy dress ball Miss Root went as a Persian and the captain asked her to present the prizes.
__________
Para was the first city in South America sighted after a voyage of two weeks.  It is situated at the mouth of the great Amazon River and has a population of 175,000 inhabitants.  It rains every day in this city on the equator and people make all their appointments for "after the rain", which usually comes about 3 p.m.  Passengers had one day ashore.  Starting out at 9 a.m. the conventional automobile ride was taken.
They say that in South America a woman should never walk out alone, but in the afternoon, "after the rain", when the other passengers were getting on street cars to ride around the city, Miss Root left them saying that she was going to hunt for some newspaper office.  After several inquiries among newsboys, pointing to their journals one of the boys took her to a newspaper office.  It proved to
page 110
be the largest newspaper in Para.  Fifteen men sat writing.  No one spoke English.  She was ushered into a newspaper "parlour" and one of the older editors talked with her in French.  She tried to explain the Bahá'í Cause and Esperanto.  He asked her to write one thousand words for their Journal.  She had to write it in English, but just as she finished, a man came in and all the others jumped up in excitement for this man could speak English.  He is the best lawyer in Para and proved to be the lawyer for the Steamship Company.  He said:  "If yon speak English very slowly, I reply in my bad English.  I am a friend of this paper."  He translated her article on the Bahá'í Cause into Portuguese for that paper and brought her down to the ship in his motor car.  Nine booklets were given to the newspaper men and the friendship begun with the lawyer may be the means of splendid, spiritual opportunities.  So far as is known no one in Para had ever heard of the Bahá'í Revelation.
__________
Pernambuco, the third largest city in South America, in commercial importance, was reached on 11 August 1919.  Bahia, which had been closed on account of yellow fever, lay several hundred miles below, en route to Rio de Janeiro.
Then began the inner drama leading to what was best for Miss Root to do.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, in his recent Tablets had particularly mentioned the importance of Bahia, and that Bahá'ís should travel there.  On the other hand, yellow fever had been ranging in Bahia and the recent rains had only begun to abate in violence.  To go to Bahia might mean a long delay and a quarantine of two weeks outside of port Rio de Janeiro when the journey was continued.  It meant the loss of the ticket on the ship from Pernambuco to Rio, and every one strongly urged her not to take the risk.  From a business standpoint the new Consul General just appointed by the United States Government was to travel on the boat and the days on ship board might mean several articles for the New York syndicate.  Added to all this, four cases of yellow fever had developed that day in Pernambuco, and a revolution started in which several were killed, street cars burned, bridges bombed, so the safest outlook seemed to be to keep aboard and journey safely to Rio.  Four American business men who had intended to remain in Pernambuco, gave up their plans and returned aboard the ship.  Throwing herself down on the bunk in the stateroom after this perplexing day, she looked through the porthole into the darkness where all alone Jupiter shone brightly, steadily unmoved in his course.  She rose up, ordered her bags ashore where she had made reservations with two steamship companies, in hope of getting a passage to Bahia on some Brazilian ship.  She took the chance, insane as it looked to the other passengers.
There is almost no English spoken in Pernambuco.  Portuguese is heard everywhere.  Hearing there was an American business woman at the Hotel do Parque Miss Root went there to try to see her and engage a room in the same hotel until a ship would come.  The two Bahia people she had met on shipboard were being entertained on a houseboat.  The American woman was in.  Almost immediately Miss Root said, "I am a Bahá'í," and the American woman replied "Did you ever know my cousin, Lua Getsinger?"48  Through the bounty of the Holy Spirit these two American women, over seven thousand miles away from home, each found a friend in the other!  This American business woman, Mrs Lillyan Vegas, loved Lua Getsinger devotedly.  They were favourite cousins, the same age, they had played
page 111
together, worked together but after their early marriages they did not see each other much.  Mrs Vegas never met Lua after the latter became a Bahá'í, but she heard of this wonderful new religion from Lua's mother.
Mrs Vegas has made eighteen trips to South America.  She speaks Portuguese, French and Spanish as fluently as English.  It was she who established milk stations for poor mothers and babies in Brazil; she took charge of supplies during a famine in the interior of Brazil, and in New York City she was one of the most brilliant speakers in the Third and Fourth Liberty Loan drives.  At present she is in Brazil as a representative of one of the largest American business houses and has been at the Hotel do Parque for seven months.  As there was "no room in the inn" she had a cot put in her room for Miss Root.  Business men abroad the ship had heard of Mrs Vegas' ability and when Miss Root went back to say good-bye and told them who her companion was, it certainly made an impression.  The captain and others asked for more blue booklets.  Some of the passengers sent Mrs Vegas some American candy and came with Miss Root to the hotel-along empty streets guarded by soldiers and dully resounding with explosives of dynamite and in the churches people were gathered praying that the revolution would cease.  Next morning Mrs Vegas received a cablegram making it possible for her to travel to Bahia and Rio, in the interest of her firm.  Her, agents were able to guarantee steamship passage to Bahia, 16 August.
Miss Root had been to the editor of the largest newspaper in Pernambuco and after speaking to him in French, she wrote an article on the Bahá'í Movement and Esperanto.  Mrs Vegas took her next morning to every one of the five large newspapers in the city and explained in detail the Bahá'í Cause and Esperanto, acting as interpreter for her.  The editors listened with great interest.
Articles appeared, and before leaving the city, Mrs Vegas and Miss Root followed the usual custom of going to see the editors again to thank them and to say good-bye.
__________
Going aboard the Brazilian ship Itapuhy, bound from Pernambuco to Bahia, 16 August, in two days Miss Root gave the Message as follows:  Hearing Arabic chanting she later spoke to the passenger through an interpreter.  She found he lived in 'Akká and knew 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He described the majestic presence of the Centre of the Covenant with the greatest enthusiasm, his face was full of light as he talked; he said he had often eaten meals in 'Abbás Effendi's house.  "My father knew Bahá'u'lláh," he exclaimed.  This man has been away from 'Akká seventeen years and is just returning.  He is a Muslim; he took a blue booklet and is carrying a little gift from Miss Root to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This Syrian presented her with a very delicious little Arabian cake and was kind to her on this stormy trip when everybody was seasick.  The boats are so small they roll like barrels, compared of course to the great ocean liners.
A custom house official from Pernambuco heard the Message as did also a captain from Denmark, a man from Beirut, a first officer from Africa, a superintendent of schools in Brazil, a young man just leaving with twenty-nine other young men sent out by the Brazilian government to the United States to study for two years.
The next morning the boat stopped for six hours in Maceio, a city of 70,000.  A merchant who knew Mrs Vegas came out with a sailboat and took Mrs Vegas and Miss Root to see his city.  After a motor ride, he drove to all the newspaper offices.  When the editors were not in he took his guests to their homes.  The editor and owner of the Journal Alagoas, Mr Jose Magathaes da Silveira, a delightful man said: "I should like to
page 113
see a movement that would bring unity in religions; it is good."  He also was in favour of Esperanto, explaining that Esperanto had several followers in Maceio.  Another editor said Esperanto had flourished there but that now it had died down again.  The Message was given to nine men prominent in newspaper and business circles in Maceio.  After breakfast at noon in the home of a pleasant Catholic family, the two Americans returned to the Itapuhy.
Nearing Bahia, so much was said about the yellow fever, and ships from Bahia to Rio de Janeiro were so uncertain, that Mrs Vegas decided to remain on the Itapuhy and go on to Rio.  It was high sea, raining torrents, stomachs were seasick, but when the little boats came out to get the passengers the only two men on board who spoke English were Americans and both offered to take Miss Root up to the hotel.  She came with a young man who is coming to Bahia to be a Baptist missionary in the interior of Brazil.  He was met by two big strapping young men, one a doctor, who are also in Bahia as missionaries.  It was rather thrilling to see them out in this far away place of the earth where 80 per cent of the inhabitants are Africans, to give their lives to improve conditions.
Miss Root was ill as the result of the storm and had a high fever.  How vividly the words came to her, "Let one not call himself a captain until he stands before the opposing army, nor a Bahá'í until he meets the tests."  The words in the Tablets of the Divine Plan and the prayers were her healing.
Bahia is a city of 280,000 inhabitants.
The word Bahia means, Bay of All Saints.  It was founded in April, 1549, by Thomas Souza, a noble, accompanied by six Jesuits.  The present popular man who will probably be re-elected governor, Dr Jose Joaquim Seabra says: "Bahia first sent out the rays of civilization of Brazil.  God placed in its founders the best gifts of the Spirit-and in its soil riches of all kinds."  The State of Bahia-the state and city are called by the same name-is one of the richest in Brazil.  It produces everything that the other states have but is noted principally for its cocoa, tobacco, coffee, diamonds, sugar, hides.  It will in time become one of the greatest world seaports because its natural harbour is good and it is nearer United States, Europe and Africa than Rio de Janeiro.
There are 365 churches in the city of Bahia.  One who has made a study of Brazil told Miss Root that many Brazilians are changing their faith.  The higher classes among the men do not care much for any religion.  The tendency among the literate is to become rationalists, not altogether atheists.  Many of them have been educated in France and their literature consists of French philosophy and French novels.  Several of the distinguished public men of Brazil are rationalists, but it is said that the women and lower classes are devout Catholics.
Miss Root found the "thinkers" of Brazil much interested in a universal religion, and nowhere did she find antagonism.  She visited the Catholic churches and approached the Bahá'í Cause from the Catholic standpoint.  If Bahá'ís come to Brazil they must learn
page 114
the Portuguese language (not hard to learn) and learn the customs of these Latin peoples.  South Americans meet strangers socially before they do any business.  "Paciencia amanha" (patience, tomorrow) is the first lesson to be learned.  Brazilians do everything slowly and with ceremony.  The Portuguese and Brazilians are born aristocrats.
At the Sul Americano hotel Miss Root met Mr Miguel P. Shelley, an American who had been doing business in Brazil for the past thirty years; he was the best business man she met in South America.  He is also a thinker, a writer, and a man loved by both North and South Americans.  She frankly explained to him the purpose of her visit and how she had approached newspapers.  He said: "You could not get the Bahá'í Cause (he had never heard of it) and Esperanto better known in South America than to do exactly as you are doing; bring them to the attention of the editors and have them written in all the newspapers."  He also was kind enough to say that a woman could travel alone in South America and that she would be shown respect if she is a good woman-"that is what the people of South America want, good men and good women from the United States to come here and do business," were his words.
Mrs R___, a woman of influence, gave her time each day to take Miss Root to meet the most distinguished people of that seaport.  Mr Shelley accompanied Miss Root and Mrs R___ to the newspaper offices where he had previously made appointments, and interpreted for her.  First, one makes a friendly call, and then the editors ask questions.  Two of the editors have been educated in Europe and speak English.  There are eight daily newspapers in Bahia.  It is better to go to two or three of the most important ones and give the Message and then call later or write to the others-papers in South America, as elsewhere, like a "scoop", that is, to get a story exclusively.  All the newspapers used good articles, illustrated with photographs of Miss Root.
One editor said: "I am interested in this religion.  If you have put a book about it in the English section of the public library, I will get it and read it.  Many Brazilians are beginning to learn English and they will like English books."  Miss Root placed Thornton Chase's book The Bahá'í Revelation, into the city library and promised six more English books on the Bahá'í Cause, to be sent from the United States.  The head of the library and his assistants were most polite.  A beautiful new large library building is just being completed.  If any reader wishes to send Bahá'í books to that great library, the address is Bibliotheca Publica do Estado da Bahia, South America.
To the Secretary of Agriculture, Dr Joaquim Arthur Pedreina France, to the business people of several countries, an American captain from California just starting for England, missionaries, people of the interior, down to the poorest Africans, the Bahá'í Cause was explained.  People were wonderfully kind.  The very fact that Miss Root was a woman travelling alone, not knowing their language touched their hearts.  One Portuguese business man and his wife at the hotel, came to her and said in French:  "We offer ourselves to serve your religion.  If you send us literature, we also shall explain it and give it to the people to read."  These same friends gave her a dinner and a large bouquet of roses and put her aboard the ship when she left.
Miss Root had no idea when she could get a ship out of Bahia or what the quarantine regulations would be.  Even Bahia people were astonished that she was able to get a ship so easily.  The Itassuce, a Brazilian boat, came up unexpectedly from Rio with a cargo.  After unloading at the docks, this ship put out to harbour, had the strongest kind of disinfection used and the passengers went out to this boat before the disin-
page 115
fection was over and had their baggage disinfected too.  It was heroic-quite brimstone enough for this world and the next.  Doctors examined the passengers and a doctor on board took temperatures each day.  (It is important to carry a thermometer and simple remedies.)
Thus Miss Root, whom everybody predicted would be delayed for several months in Bahia, voyaged on safely after a six-day stay in Bahia-the city of which 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Visit ye especially Bahia, on the eastern shore of Brazil.  Because in the past years this city was christened with the name of Bahia, there is no doubt that it has been through the inspiration of God."
The journey from Bahia to Rio is four days.  All boats were pleasant but so small they rolled interminably and some of the most seasoned sailors were seasick.  No other woman aboard was able to go into the dining room once during the voyage.  Only two persons spoke English on the Itassuce, but several could talk in French, and with so much practice Miss Root now gave the Message in French.  One man going to his home in Cortiba, the capital of the state of Parana, took the book, Tablet of Tarázát, etc., and will place it in the city library there.  The Message was also given to a man who acts as a guide and interpreter in South American hotels.  He is a Roumanian who speaks seven languages; also some rationalists, who had seen the articles in the papers, asked about the Cause.
__________
Rio de Janeiro harbour is called the most beautiful in the world.  It is eighteen miles long and sixteen miles wide-a magnificent "bowl" with its edges stupendous mountains whose slender pinnacles are capped with graceful, restless palm trees; those companionable trees that legend tells cannot live beyond the sound of the human voice.  In this "bowl" are a hundred lovely islands.  Rio, one of the greatest show places on the earth, is remembered always for its scenery.  Miss Root arrived in the best time of all, the glorious sunset hour.  It was at six o'clock 27 August 1919.  She went to eight hotels finding them all crowded and at the ninth place took a room in a Portuguese hotel where no other language is spoken.  She found her way around Rio by writing her address and showing the paper to policemen and street car conductors.
She gave the Bahá'í Message about as follows:  Interviewing the American Consul-General the first day, he introduced her to the editor of the Journal do Commercio, who was calling at the consulate.  This is the largest paper in Brazil and Miss Root learned later that it is one of the influential papers in the world; its news is copied by papers in other cities and small towns throughout the twenty-one states.  The editor invited her to call at his office.  He was interested in the Bahá'í Cause and gave it about three-fourths of a column, an excellent article, outlining the vital principles.  He also gave her addresses to an Esperanto writer and to the President of the Esperanto Society of Brazil.
After that call Miss Root went out to Copacabana, a fashionable residence section by the sea, to call upon Mr Miguel Shelly's wife and sister, Mrs Bertha Thomas-Americans who have lived many years in Brazil.  The Bahá'í Cause was the theme of the conversation and the spiritual friendship has proved beautiful.  The sister has the little prayer book, several Bahá'í booklets and a picture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The following day she came and took Miss Root to the second largest newspaper, Journal do Brazil, and interpreted the Message.  They met the owner as well as the editor, and a good article appeared in the Sunday paper.  The next call was to Mr Manoel Cicero, Director of the Bibliotheca do Rio de Janeiro, in the Avenida Rio do Branco.  This is the finest library in Brazil and is stacked with 400,000 volumes.  The Director received Some Answered Questions, What
page 116
went ye out to see, Dynamic Power of the Bahá'í Revelation, a blue booklet and the compilation on Peace and War.  The director said he would be very glad to have other books on the Bahá'í Cause.  Many Brazilians are now learning English and frequent the English section of the library as do also the Americans and British.  There are over 500 in the American colony in Rio at present.
Exceedingly delightful was the visit to the Esperantists where Miss Root and Mrs Thomas went after lunch.  Dr Everdo Backheuser, an Esperanto writer, took them to an Esperanto social reception.  On the way she presented the doctor with Mr Esselmont's Esperanto article, "Science and Religion".  Miss Root gave them the Message.  The President of the Esperanto Society of Brazil, Mr Alberto Conto Fernandes, knew about the Bahá'í Movement and showed her Esperanto articles about Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Mr Fernandes is an engineer, a distinguished man in business and one of the great Esperantists of the world.  He has taught Esperanto to one thousand people in Brazil, and he, as well as Dr Backheuser, has written several Esperanto books.  He reads some English, and speaks and reads French fluently.  Esperanto is taught in the normal and primary schools in Rio, classes are held in the fire engine-house departments and in the telegraph offices.  A street has just been named, "Dr Zamenhof".  Five National Esperanto Congresses have been held in Brazil.  There is constant communication between Esperantists of the different cities, and every two weeks Rio Esperantists meet at their rooms and have programs of Esperanto plays, lectures and songs followed by a social hour.  The Esperanto library here is the most complete Miss Root has seen anywhere in the world.
The Young Men's Christian Association in Rio has an Esperanto class and an Esperanto library.  She placed 'Abdu'l-Bahá's London Talks in that library.  The Brazil Esperantisto, a monthly magazine, published in Rio, is using an article about the Bahá'í Cause.  Rio newspapers, not only in the interviews but later in reporting the Esperanto meetings and when the books were put in Rio library, spoke again of the Bahá'í Cause.  These articles are often copied in other cities.  The best introduction for the Bahá'í Cause anywhere is through the newspapers.
Miss Root spoke, of the Cause in the Consulate, at the American Embassy, Brazilian School of Naval Aviation, Brazilian Army School of Aviation, the American Chamber of Commerce in Rio, to several Brazilian families, a cocoa plantation owner and to the United States, British, French and Brazilian business men whom she met.
__________
Miss Root left Rio de Janeiro, 5 September, at 7 a.m. for Sao Paulo.  On the train only two persons could speak English, they only riding for an hour later in the day.  She gave them the Message, one a young married man from New Jersey out there for thirteen years, the other a young married woman from Kent, England.  The journey, scenically, is like riding twelve hours in Paradise, whose wealth is not yet discovered by the world at large.
Sao Paulo is more like the "Chicago" of Brazil, as it is the place where many of the industries are.  Raw materials from the heart of Brazil are poured into Sao Paulo, some to be made up there and more passing down to Santos port and thence shipped.  Unlike Chicago, Sao Paulo was created from the beginning with a wonderful love of the beautiful.  Its station de luxe is beside a famous park.  Its business blocks are nestled amid splendid gardens, its houses "grow" amid tropical palms, Parana pines, yellow roses climbing to the deep red roofs, orchids, calla lilies, night blooming cereus, and most of the rarest flowers, growing in everybody's yard.  Miss Root heard a band concert in mid-afternoon in a small park in the crowded business district and violin
page 117
playing in a large grocery store.  Sao Paulo in climate, beauty and business, is ideal.
Miss Root went to four hotels before she could find a place, then paid as high as the prices in New York, had a room on the fifth floor and no elevator.  The owners were Italians but could speak French, though no English.  Sao Paulo with her population of 500,000 has as much hotel accommodations as has an American town of 5,000.  It is destined, however, to be one of the greatest centres of the business world, perhaps within a century.
Going to the largest newspaper, Estado do Sao Paulo, to meet the editor and explain the Bahá'í Cause, Miss Root, at the same time, met a Syrian lawyer from Mt. Lebanon.  He was educated in Beirut College and has resided in Sao Paulo twenty years.  His name is Assad Bechara; his passionate aim and ideal is the liberation of his country and that the United States shall be "its brother's keeper" until Syria like Cuba can be independent.  She gave him the Message, seeing him each day, and as the 15,000 Syrians in Sao Paulo, some of whom are from Beirut, have a semi-public library, presented them with Mons. Dreyfus' book, The Bahai Revelation.  There are 100,000 Syrians in Brazil.
The Director of the Rockefeller Foundation, Dr S. F. Darling, who has been in Sao Paulo for five years making a demonstration for the Brazilian Government, listened to the Message, and the book, Divine Philosophy, was presented to the Faculada de Madicina library.  Dr Darling is one of the renowned men of the world.  He made the famous hookworm demonstration (under the Rockefeller Foundation) in Africa, Panama, Java and Fiji Islands and is making a similar demonstration in Brazil.  He said he would read the Bahá'í literature.  This great new institution is going to play a leading part in the medical profession in Brazil.  The United States or any other country, would be proud of an institution such as this is going to be.  It is one and one-half years old now, housed in the palace of a former coffee baron, and attended by hundreds of medical students, who came to work in the laboratories and to attend Dr Darling's lectures.  It is the most advanced institution Miss Root saw in Brazil.  The Brazilian Government invited the Rockefeller Foundation to come and the two are working together.  Bahá'í books on social lines would be very good for this library.
__________
Taking the train, 10 September, from Sao Paulo for Santos, a two-hour's ride, Miss Root saw probably the richest short railroad in the world, and most perfect.  An American railroad president when asked what could be done to improve it said he knew of nothing unless to set its rails with diamonds.  The train hovers like a bird around the mountain sides, and one is thrilled, awed by the grandeur of millions of forest trees, above and below.  Eleven tunnels are blasted through solid rock and there are mountains of granite.  Arriving in Santos she left her bags at the station and walked half a mile to a small Brazilian Hotel which proved to be a very good one.  The population of Santos is 200,000.  During the first six months of 1919, Brazilian exports were $274,304,000, of which $147,526,000 passed through the port of Santos.
The next morning, Miss Root looked up the library; it is not a city library, but one for all people employed in the business world of Santos.  Its name explains it:  Sociadade Humanitaria des Empregades, no Commercio.  There are five thousand volumes and newspapers and magazines from all Brazil.  The Director, who speaks English, was not in, but it was an easy matter to turn to their files and show them articles about the Bahá'í Cause in a dozen papers.  They seemed delighted with the books she left there: 'Abdu'l-Bahá's London Talks, Table Talks with Abdul-Baha (the Winterburn's book) and the blue
page 118
booklet.  The Library though small had a delightful atmosphere.
In the evening, Miss Root went to see the editor of the principal newspaper, A Tribuna, and on the following evening, Theosophists, seeing the Bahá'í article in the paper, called and invited her to address their society.  As she was sailing the next day they appointed a "commission" to meet at her hotel in the morning.
Sometimes the most glorious events in life come upon one unaware and this was one of them.  Three men came, the president of the Theosophical Society, Mr Guido Gnocchi, a great worker since its beginning five years ago, and two other distinguished Theosophists.  Miss Root at first asked them about their society and said she would write about it in the North American papers.  The president, through an interpreter (one of their own number), explained that he had come to learn more about the Bahá'í Cause.  He had articles in his home about Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and believed that they are the World Teachers today; he spoke of them at a Theosophical Conference in Sao Paulo recently.  He said he wished to write about them in the different newspapers throughout Brazil, just as he had written to help Theosophy.
Miss Root had a number of Portuguese newspaper clippings explaining the Cause and its principles.  The young man-who is an Italian by birth, an artist, and very psychological-said immediately that he would translate the blue booklet into Portuguese and get its thoughts into the newspapers of Brazil.  He said: "I will work for this Bahá'í Cause in Brazil.  I will try to learn English to propagate it further and I have a great longing to travel around the world to spread its Teachings."  This man had never heard of travelling Bahá'í teachers.  He had only glimpsed the principles, but like Paul he had the vision.  They talked for hours and she gave them Thornton Chase's The Bahai Revelation, 'Abu'l-Fadl's Bahá'í Proofs, the Divine Plan, and several booklets.  One of the other men is from Fiume, though all three have been in Brazil many years.  He had a vision of "the oneness of the world of humanity", and wrote a book on this subject which is in its second edition.  He is much interested in the Bahá'í Cause and can read English.
When the Santos friends came to bring Miss Root to the ship outward bound for Buenos Aires, Mr Guido Gnocchi had with him a friend from Sao Paulo to whom he had spoken of the Bahá'í Cause.  This man, J. R. Goncalves da Silva, who for many years has been a free thinker, occultist and scholar said he had come to ask for literature.  He will tell others in the state and city of Sao Paulo of this Bahá'í Revelation.
Mr Gnocchi read to the group a long article which he had just finished for a Brazilian paper, giving the history of the Bahá'í Cause; it would appear that week.
Brazilians of the better classes in the large cities have much broader views and are much more refined than people in the United States realize.  They are not specialists but have a general and very real culture.  Many of them have been educated in Europe and all have centuries of refinement back of them.  Their manners are so perfect and pleasing, one cannot help wishing other countries had ways as gentle and as truly polite.  They are not creed-bound and the very broadness of the Bahá'í Movement makes it appeal to them.  Within a century there will be Mashriqu'l-Adhkárs in Brazil.  The wonderful souls, the good articles in the newspapers, the books in the libraries will be enveloped in the clouds of the Holy Spirit, and the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant, will be known in every city and hamlet.  "Verily, He is the Powerful over all that He wisheth."
(Continued in Star of the West, XXI:12, pp. 206-207, 211-216.)


XI:7, 13 July 1920
page 112
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mr A. W. Randall
To his honour Mr A. W. Randall-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!-O thou who art attracted to the Kingdom of Abhá!
Thy letter has been received.  Its perusal imparted greatest joy, because that truthful servant of Bahá'u'lláh, together with his honourable wife, have really, with perfect love, arisen in the service of the Kingdom.  The happiness of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is confined to this fact:  that some souls may, with the utmost purity and severance from aught else save God, become attracted spirit (unmixed spirit) and, wholly submerged in the ocean of mindfulness and piety, dedicate their time, day and night, to the service of the Cause of God.
His honour Fádil-i-Mázindarání is from those souls who have dedicated their lives to the service of the Cause of God.  It is my hope that his pure breath may be the cause of the union and harmony of the friends.
The papers of Mr Hearst are verily striving for the protection of the rights of the public.  I am supplicating that they may become the first papers serving the good of the world of humanity, so that they may keep alive the blessed name of Mrs Hearst and that this name (Hearst) may live permanently till eternity.
The model of Mr Bourgeois, praise be to God, has become acceptable to the friends, especially that it has proved approvable to his honour, Mr Remey.
page 113
Convey on my behalf the utmost kindness to all the friends of God.  Upon thee be the Glory of God!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh, Mt. Carmel, Palestine, 25 June 1920.



XI:8, 1 August 1920
page 121

Extract from a talk given at the home of Mr and Mrs Kinney, New York, 1 December 1912
Know this for a certainty that today the penetrative power in the arteries and the nerves of the world of humanity is the power of the Covenant.  The body of the world will not be moved through any power except through the power of the Covenant.  There is no other power like unto this.  Consider what a transformation has been effected since my first visit.  This has been made possible through the power of the Covenant.


XI:8, 1 August 1920
page 122
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Charles Mason Remey
To his honour, Mr Remey, Washington, D.C.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou son of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Its contents were in the utmost sweetness, for it was indicative that with the utmost power thou hast arisen in order to link together the hearts of souls that are in America with those who are in Europe.  This is of utmost importance, for the first divine teaching is that communities must be freed from racial, political and even patriotic prejudice, that all men are of one race and the whole universe one land.  Consider how unwise and short-sighted are the leaders, the politicians and the philosophers of the present age! The American continent and Europe, that is, Germany and France, are a small portion of the terrestrial globe.  What is the importance of this globe?-for it commands no importance when compared to these infinite bodies that abound in this limitless space; it is like unto an insignificant spot on the surface of the wide ocean.  No importance should be attached to the terrestrial globe, how much less to one of the countries of the globe.  The inhabitants of countries are so immersed in their imaginations that they have carved for themselves statues of imagination, which they worship, when actually they are naught but fantastic images, yet in spite of that they are worshipped by everyone.  How heedless, unintelligent and unwise are the leaders and philosophers of today!
In short, the divine teachings constitute the uni-coloured pavilion of the oneness of the world of humanity.  All the peoples of the world shall not attain unto rest except under its shadow, and in accordance with these teachings, the Turk as well as the Tajik, the European as well as the American, the Asiatic as well as the African-all shall rest under the shadow of this pavilion.  The friends of God must therefore deal with all the communities of the world with the utmost truthfulness and friendship without any distinction of race, so that all may embrace one another and with the utmost harmony and love may engage in the glorification of the Lord of the Kingdom.
I have delivered an address at the university of the coloured men at Washington on the subject of the coloured and the white.  Refer to it and act accordingly.
In brief, I am greatly pleased with thy conduct and thy behaviour.  Praise be to God, thou are freed from these limitations and imaginations, hast no purpose save the diffusion of the divine fragrances and art ever restless and active.  Thou art day and night striving to hoist the resplendent banner and to cause the shining morn to illumine all regions.  From the Abhá Kingdom I ever beg confirmation for thee, for without it the smallest things cannot be performed, how much less this important question.
Convey on my behalf to all the friends of God, greeting.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 11 October 1919.


XI:8, 1 August 1920
page 123
To the Central Organization for a Durable Peace
[Translation of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's Letter and Tablet sent to the General Secretary of The Hague.  Received by the Star of the West, 24 July 1920.-Editors.]
[Pages 123-127, 129 and part of page 130 can be found in Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 296-307.-M.W.T.]
page 130
...  This is the truth about the situation, which has been stated.
Consider how powerful are the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  At a time when His Holiness was in the prison of 'Akká and was under the restrictions and threats of two blood-thirsty kings, notwithstanding this fact, his teachings spread with all power in Persia and other countries.  Should any teaching, or any principle, or any community fall under the threat of a powerful and blood-thirsty monarch it will be annihilated within a short space of time.  At present for fifty years the Bahá'ís in Persia and most regions have been under severe restrictions and the threat of sword and spear.  Thousands of souls have given their lives in the arena of sacrifice and have fallen as victims under the swords of oppression and cruelty.  Thousands of esteemed families have been uprooted and destroyed.  Thousands of children have been made fatherless.  Thousands of fathers have been bereft of their sons.  Thousands
page 131
of mothers have wept and lamented for their boys who have been beheaded.  All this oppression and cruelty, rapacity and blood-thirstiness did not hinder or prevent the spread of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  They spread more and more every day, and power and might became more evident.
It may be that some foolish person among the Persians will affix his name to the contents of the Tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh or to the explanations given in the letters [Tablets] of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and send it to that esteemed Assembly.  Ye must be aware of this fact, for any Persian who seeks fame or has some other intention will take the entire contents of the Tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and publish them in his own name or in that of his community, just as happened at the Universal Races Congress in London before the war.  A Persian took the substance of the Epistles of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, entered that Congress, gave them forth in his own name and published them, whereas the wording was exactly that of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Some such souls have gone to Europe and have caused confusion in the minds of the people of Europe and have disturbed the thoughts of some Orientalists.  Ye must bear this fact in mind, for not a word of these teachings was heard in Persia before the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh.  Investigate this matter so that it may become to you evident and manifest.  Some souls are like parrots.  They learn any note which they may hear, and sing it, but they themselves are unaware of what they utter.  There is a sect in Persia at present made up of a few souls who are called Bábís, who claim to be followers of His Holiness the Báb, whereas they are utterly unaware of His Holiness.  They have some secret teachings which are entirely opposed to the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and in Persia people know this.  But when these souls come to Europe, they conceal their own teachings and utter those of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, for they know that the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh are powerful and they therefore declare publicly those teachings of Bahá'u'lláh in their own name.  As to their secret teachings, they say that they are taken from the Book of Bayán, and the Book of Bayán is from His Holiness the Báb.  When ye get hold of the translation of the Book of Bayán, which has been translated in Persia, ye will discover the truth that the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are utterly opposed to the teachings of this sect.  Beware lest ye disregard this fact.  Should ye desire to investigate the matter further, enquire from Persia.
In fine, when travelling and journeying throughout the world, wherever one finds construction, it is the result of fellowship and love, while everything that is in ruin shows the effect of enmity and hatred.  Notwithstanding this, the world of humanity has not become aware and has not awakened from the sleep of heedlessness.  Again it engages in differences, in disputes and wrangling, that it may set up ranks of war and may run to and fro in the arena of battle and strife.
So is it with regard to the universe and its corruption, existence and non-existence.  Every contingent being is made up of different and numerous elements and the existence of everything is a result of composition.  That is to say, when between simple elements a composition takes place a being arises; the creation of beings comes about in this way.  And when that composition is upset, it is followed by decomposition, the elements disintegrate, and that being becomes annihilated.  That is to say, the annihilation of everything consists in the decomposition and the separation of elements.  Therefore every union and
page 132
colour, of leaves, of flowers and of fruits, each will contribute to the beauty and charm of the others and will make an admirable garden, and will appear in the utmost loveliness, freshness and sweetness.  Likewise, when difference and variety of thoughts, forms, opinions, characters and morals of the world of mankind come under the control of one Supreme Power and the influence of the composition among the elements is the cause of life, while dissociation and separation is the cause of death.  In short, attraction and harmony of things are the cause of the production of fruits and useful results, while repulsion and disharmony of things are the cause of disturbance and annihilation.  From harmony and attraction, all living contingent beings, such as plant, animal and man, are realized, and from disharmony and repulsion decay sets in and annihilation becomes manifest.  Therefore whatever is the cause of harmony, attraction and union among men is the life of the world of humanity, and whatever is the cause of difference, of repulsion and of separation is the cause of the death of mankind.  And when thou passest by a garden wherein vegetable beds and plants, flowers and fragrant herbs are all combined so as to form a harmonious whole, this is an evidence that this plantation and this rose garden have been cultivated and arranged by the care of a perfect gardener, while when thou seest a garden in disorder, lacking arrangement and confused, this indicates that it has been deprived of the care of a skilful gardener, nay, rather, it is nothing but a mass of weeds.  It has therefore been made evident that fellowship and harmony are indicative of the training of the real Educator, while separation and dispersion prove wildness and deprivation of Divine Training.
Should anyone object that, since the communities and nations and races and peoples of the world have different formalities, customs, tastes, temperaments and morals and varied thoughts, minds and opinions, it is therefore impossible for ideal unity to be made manifest, and complete union among men to be realized, we say that differences are of two kinds.  One leads to destruction, and that is like the difference between warring peoples and competing nations who destroy one another, uproot each other's families, do away with rest and comfort and engage in bloodshed and rapacity.  That is blameworthy.  But the other difference consists in variation.  This is perfection itself and the cause of the appearance of Divine bounty.  Consider the flowers of the rose garden.  Although they are of different kinds, various colours and diverse forms and appearances, yet as they drink from one water, are swayed by one breeze and grow by the warmth and light of one sun, this variation and this difference cause each to enhance the beauty and splendour of the others.  The differences in manners, in customs, in habits, in thoughts and opinions and in temperaments is the cause of the adornment of the world of mankind.  This is praiseworthy.  Likewise this difference and this variation, like the difference and variation of the parts and members of the human body, are the cause of the appearance of beauty and perfection.  As these different parts and members are under the control of the dominant spirit, and the spirit permeates all the organs and members, and rules all the arteries and veins, this difference and this variation strengthen love and harmony and this multiplicity is the greatest aid to unity.  If in a garden the flowers and fragrant herbs, the blossoms and fruits, the leaves, branches and trees are of one kind, of one form, of one colour and of one arrangement, there is no beauty or sweetness, but when there is variety of
page 133
world of oneness, they will appear and be displayed in the most perfect glory, beauty, exaltation and perfection.  Today nothing but the power of the Word of God which encompasses the realities of things can bring the thoughts, the minds, the hearts and the spirits under the shade of One Tree.  He is the Potent in all things, the Vivifier of souls, the Preserver and the Controller of the world of mankind.  Praise be to God, in this day the light of the Word of God has shone forth upon all regions, and from all sects, communities, nations, tribes, peoples, religions and denominations, souls have gathered under the shadow of the Word of Oneness and have in the most intimate fellowship united and harmonized!
Some time ago, during the war, a letter [Tablet] was written regarding the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh which may appropriately be appended to this epistle.
Tablet
HE IS GOD!
O people of the world!
The dawn of the Sun of Reality is assuredly for the illumination of the world and for the manifestation of mercy.  In the assemblage of the family of Adam results and fruits are praiseworthy, and the holy bestowals of every bounty are abundant.  It is an absolute mercy and a complete bounty, the illumination of the world, fellowship and harmony, love and union; nay, rather, mercifulness and oneness, the elimination of discord and the unity of whomsoever are on the earth in the utmost of freedom and dignity.  The Blessed Beauty [Bahá'u'lláh] said; "All are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch".  He likened the world of existence to one tree and all the souls to leaves, blossoms and fruits.  Therefore all the branches, leaves, blossoms and fruits must be in the utmost of freshness, and the bringing about of this delicacy and sweetness depends upon union and fellowship.  Therefore they must assist each other with all their power and seek everlasting life.  Thus the friends of God must manifest the mercy of the Compassionate Lord in the world of existence and must show forth the bounty of the visible and invisible King.  They must purify their sight, and look upon mankind as the leaves, blossoms and fruits of the tree of creation, and must always be thinking of doing good to some one, of love, consideration, affection and assistance to somebody.  They must see no enemy and count no one as an ill wisher.  They must consider everyone on the earth as a friend; regard the stranger as an intimate, and the alien as a companion.  They must not be bound by any tie, nay, rather, they should be free from every bond.  In this day the one who is favoured in the threshold of grandeur is the one who offers the cup of faithfulness and bestows the pearl of gift to the enemies, even to the fallen oppressor, lends a helping hand, and considers every bitter foe as an affectionate friend.
These are the commands of the Blessed Beauty, these are the counsels of the Greatest Name.  O ye dear friends!  The world is engaged in war and struggle, and mankind is in the utmost conflict and danger.  The darkness of unfaithfulness has enshrouded the earth and the illumination of faithfulness has become concealed.  All nations and tribes of the world have sharpened their
page 134
claws and are warring and fighting with each other.  The edifice of man is shattered.  Thousands of families are wandering disconsolate.  Thousands of thousands of souls are besmeared with dust and blood in the arena of battle and struggle every year, and the tent of happiness and life is overthrown.  The prominent men become commanders and boast of bloodshed, and glory in destruction.  One says:  "I have severed with my sword the necks of a nation", and one:  " I have levelled a kingdom to the dust"; and another:  " I have overthrown the foundation of a government."  This is the pivot around which the pride and glory of mankind are revolving.  In all regions friendship and uprightness are denounced and reconciliation and regard for truth are despised.  The herald of peace, reformation, love and reconciliation is the Religion of the Blessed Beauty which has pitched its tent on the apex of the world and proclaimed its summons to the people.
Then, O ye friends of God!  Appreciate the value of this precious Revelation, move and act in accordance with it and walk in the straight path and the right way.  Show it to the people.  Raise the melody of the Kingdom and spread abroad the teachings and ordinances of the loving Lord so that the world may become another world, the darkened earth may become illumined and the dead body of the people may obtain new life.  Every soul may seek everlasting life through the breath of the Merciful.  Life in this mortal world will quickly come to an end, and this earthly glory, wealth, comfort and happiness will soon vanish and be no more.  Summon ye the people to God and call the souls to the manners and conduct of the Supreme Concourse.  To the orphans be ye kind fathers, and to the unfortunate a refuge and shelter.  To the poor be a treasure of wealth, and to the sick a remedy and healing.  Be a helper of every oppressed one, the protector of every destitute one, be ye ever mindful to serve any soul of mankind.  Attach no importance to self-seeking, rejection, arrogance, oppression and enmity.  Heed them not.  Deal in the contrary way.  Be kind in truth, not only in appearance and outwardly.  Every soul of the friends of God must concentrate his mind on this, that he may manifest the mercy of God and the bounty of the Forgiving One.  He must do good to every soul whom he encounters, and render benefit to him, becoming the cause of improving the morals and correcting the thoughts so that the light of guidance may shine forth and the bounty of His Holiness the Merciful One may encompass.  Love is light in whatsoever house it may shine and enmity is darkness in whatsoever abode it dwell.
O friends of God!  Strive ye so that this darkness may be utterly dispelled and the Hidden Mystery may be revealed and the realities of things made evident and manifest.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by:  Shoghi Rabbání, Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Mírzá Lutfu'lláh Hakím, and Dr J. E. Esslemont.
Haifa, Palestine, 17 December 1919.


XI:9, 20 August 1920
page 139
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs Corinne True
To the dear daughter of the Kingdom, Mrs Corinne True, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be the light of God, the Most Luminous!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter has been received and the proceedings of the Convention understood.  Thanks be unto God that this Convention was supported by the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá and as thou didst wish it was formed and ended.
Praise be unto God, that the model of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár made by Mr Bourgeois was approved by his honour, Mr Remey, and selected by the Convention.  His honour, Mr Remey is, verily, of perfect sincerity.  He is like unto transparent water, filtered, lucid and without any impurity.  He worked earnestly for several years, but he did not have any personal motive.  He has not attachment to anything except to the Cause of God.  This is the spirit of the firm and this is the characteristic of the sincere.
The model of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is, however, too big.  It needs several millions of dollars for the cost (of construction).  If possible, Mr Bourgeois may reproduce the same model on a smaller scale, so that one million dollars may suffice for its construction.  This should be reconsidered only if possible.
Thy services to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár are accepted at the Threshold of the Most Great One.
Convey on my behalf the most wonderful Abhá greetings to all the friends, especially to the House of Spirituality and other Assemblies.  Practice utmost affection towards thy dear daughters on my behalf.  I have no opportunity to write more than this.
Upon thee be the light of the Most Luminous!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, 12 June 1920, Haifa, Palestine.


XI:9, 20 August 1920
page 140
The model for the Bahá'í Temple, Chicago
Louis J. Bourgeois, Architect
By J. R. Reid
[Paper from The Architectural Record, June 1920, pp. 501-505.]
The model designed by Louis J. Bourgeois for the great Bahá'í Temple to be built in Chicago is attracting much attention from architects.  It is of unusual interest from several points of view.  The Temple is a new and original form in architecture-"the first new idea in architecture since the thirteenth century", according to Mr H. Van Buren Magonigle.  Beautiful in the harmony of its proportions, it has in addition a singular charm in its symbolism; and to the psychologist it is noteworthy, because the creator declares:  "It is Bahá'u'lláh's temple.  I am only the channel through which it came."
In form the temple is a nonagon, or nine-sided structure, and its lower story offers a complete innovation in architecture in the use of nine inverted half circles, with a great doorway in the centre of each, so that from whatsoever side one approaches the edifice it seems to extend its arms in welcome.  From dome to foundation it is a unique creation and unlike any building in existence, yet one reads in its curving beauty the story of the architecture of the world.  The first floor in its simplicity of line suggests the Greek and Egyptian temples; while the treatment of the doors and windows is Romanesque in form, and both Gothic and Arabic in the intricacy and beauty of ornamentation.  The second story is Renaissance in line and Gothic in the interlaced arches of its openings.  The third is restful, quiet and Renaissance in treatment.  Above it rises a lovely dome, suggestive of Byzantine forms; but above the closed top rise other beams of the dome itself like hands clasped in prayer, so that the dome gives the feeling of ascension and aspiration found previously in the Gothic towers alone.
In the geometric forms of the ornamentation covering the columns and surrounding windows and doors of the temple, one deciphers all the religious symbols of the world.  Here are the swastika cross, the circle, the triangle, the double triangle or six pointed star (or Solomon's seal, the magic symbol of necromancers of old); but more than this, the noble symbol of the spiritual Orb, or Sun behind the Saviour of mankind; the five pointed star, representing the man saviour-Christ or Buddha or Muhammad:  the Greek Cross, the Roman
page 141
or Christian Cross; and, supreme above all, the wonderful nine pointed star, figured in the structure of the temple itself, and appearing again and again in its ornamentation, as significant of the Spiritual Glory in the world today.
The nine pointed star reappears in the formation of the windows and doors, which are all topped by this magnificent allegory of spiritual glory, from which extend gilded rays covering the lower surfaces, and illustrating, in this vivid and artistic limning, the descent of the Holy Spirit.
Curiously enough this Descent of the Holy Spirit was the first thing Louis J. Bourgeois pictured in his drawing of the temple.  He said, "I did the doors and windows of the lower story first, and then I got the entire form."
The numbers 9 and 19 recur again and again in the structure of the temple, illustrating its basic principle of Unity-9 being the number of perfection, containing in itself the completion of each perfect number cycle, and 19 representing the Union of God and man, as manifested in life, civilization and all things.
His description of how he made the model is as interesting as the structure itself; but in reading it one must remember that Bourgeois is an architect of long and wide experience.  He built Gothic churches in France; then he built them in Canada.  His buildings are found in Chicago, in California, where he erected and planned the well known house and garden of Paul de Longpré, the flower painter, and also in New York.
Twenty-five years ago he had a remarkable spiritual experience, through which he came into a knowledge of his spiritual self, as well as his physical man.  Then he was told that some day he would build a great temple, and he made a sketch of a circular twelve sided building, at that time.  Henceforth he dreamed of his temple, and tried to make a drawing of it, but could not.  He became interested in the Bahá'í Movement, and nine years ago made an architectural drawing of a temple, in order that he might be represented in the competition spoken of at that time for the erection of a Bahá'í temple in Chicago; but he said then, "This is not my temple, I am only putting it in to get a chance in the competition.  If I win, I can draw the real temple."
But the competition never materialized, and four years ago, when he returned from the Bahá'í convention in Boston, Bourgeois suddenly, in an hour's time, sketched the lower story of his temple.  But he could get no further, and half dazed by the ornate splendour of this fragment realized that he must model it, because he could never express on a flat surface the many-faced beauty of its plan.  He endeavoured to cut into the plaster the intricate tracery of ornament he saw; but he had never done such work, and he was obliged to ask the help of a friend skilled in the art, and after half a day's training he went at his task successfully.  He did each successive story in this way, modelling the beauty in plaster as it was revealed to him, never seeing the whole, yet saying to himself constantly, "How do I dare go on?  Because this is so wonderful; and how can I make a dome wonderful enough to complete it?"  And then always the thought would come, "The Power that is giving you this will give you a dome the most wonderful of all!"
So he did the first story with its welcoming arms, and the second with its Gothic elegance, and the third with its Renaissance quiet and beauty.  One morning he wakened suddenly at three o'clock and knew that he was to draw the dome.  He was very happy; and as his fingers flew on for a rich hour, he knew that the dome was the most wonderful of all.  That is why he says, "It is Bahá'u'lláh's temple.  It is not mine!"
There is another side to this temple story, which is both human and appealing.  It has to do with love and comprehension and faithful service.  The architect is not rich, and he realized that if he worked at his model the family income would cease, and perhaps no one would ever build his mighty temple.  His wife is also an artist, but she bought a little notion store in West Englewood; and while he worked on the model, she sold ice cream and candy.  When he needed
page 142
clay for his first modelling he was out of money, so he went into the garden, filled his wife's clothes basket with Dorothy Perkins roses, which covered the arbour.  He took them to New York and sold them for five dollars, with which he bought his clay.
He thought he could make the model in three months, but it took him three years, and he says his wife is really the temple builder, for had it not been for her sympathy and cheerful sacrifice he never could have carried to completion the gigantic work.
The model is now on exhibition at the Kevorkian gallery in New York City.  It was chosen for erection in Chicago by the delegates to the Bahá'í Convention, held recently in New York.  Its original plan demands a building 360 feet in height, and 450 feet in diameter; but these figures will be halved for the Chicago structure, making a dimension of 180 by 225.  The building constructed in this size will cost somewhere near a million and a half dollars.
One naturally asks what is behind such a conception and what it means for humanity.  The Bahá'í Movement, which is planning this stupendous creation, is the great international movement of Unity and Brotherhood, which arose in Persia in 1844 and extends its branches and its influence everywhere at the present time.  It was first taught by 'Alí Muhammad, who was presently given the title of Báb or Gate, meaning a door opened between heaven and earth.  He foretold the coming of Bahá'u'lláh, who he said would appear in nineteen years, and would be the Glory of God for all mankind through the nobility of his life and teachings.  Bahá'u'lláh means the Glory of God, and his influence, penetrating all mankind in the Glory shining through him, will at length unite all religions, all nations, all races-banishing hatred, rancour, partisanship in the great love which rises through realization of the Fatherhood of God and the true brotherhood of mankind.
Bahá'u'lláh died in 1892 in the prison town of 'Akká, Syria, to which he had been sent by those persecutors who, as in the case of all the Prophets, could not distinguish light from darkness.  He left
page 143
the leadership of the movement in the hands of his son, 'Abbás, also a prisoner, saying, "I have established a new covenant between God and Man, and my son is the centre of that covenant."
His son took the title of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, or The Servant of God, literally, the Slave of the Glory, and the name of 'Abdu'l-Bahá has already become known everywhere, the synonym for service, love and wisdom.  He was freed front imprisonment in 1908, through the action of the constitutional revolution in Turkey, and since then has travelled in western countries, visiting America in 1912.
The Bahá'í Revelation, as it is sometimes called, inspires a movement, not a sect.  It has a very slight organization embodied in a Unity Board, which manages the Temple fund.  The temple will be a great place of worship for all mankind.  Its doors will never be closed; no priesthood will ever officiate within its walls; about it will be gardens and fountains; and beyond these, a series of buildings devoted to the application of true religion to life, a hospital, an orphan asylum, a hospice or house of hospitality, a guild house, a university, etc.  Only worship can be voiced in the temple itself; but the results of such worship are to be evidenced in these surrounding buildings, where all activities of the community will meet in the comradeship inspired by mutual counsel from which criticism and politics shall have been banished.


XI:10, 8 September 1920
page 159
Tablets received by American Bahá'ís in 1919
...
Mr and Mrs Latimer
To their honours, Mr James and Rúhaniyyih Latimer, Portland, Oregon-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two faithful and assured souls!
Praise be to God, your son, George Latimer, is enkindled with the fire of the love of God, and is with all his
page 163
power engaged in service.  This youth shall be confirmed and shall plant for you a tree that shall eternally yield fresh fruits.
The meeting which ye prepared at the home of Mr and Mrs Nash, on the day of Naw-Rúz, was an illumined assemblage and the recipient of merciful blessings.  Such gatherings are pregnant with remarkable results and their importance shall, in the future, be made evident and manifest.  During the autumn season the seed is sown and its significance is veiled, but when springtime approaches and causes it to thrive, then its importance is revealed.
At present the principle of the Oneness of Mankind resembles a seed which is sown and which at first commands no importance, but when the springtime of Universal Peace draws near, then it shall grow and its importance be made known.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.
Sophie Loeding
To the maid-servant of God, Sophie Loeding, Chicago, Illinois,-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Praise be to God, thou hast attended the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár Convention at New York, hast witnessed that great stir and celebration, hast associated with the friends and joined them in their songs, hast been animated and quickened and with a new spirit hast returned to Chicago.  Associate intimately with the class of young friends and join them in their activities.  Convey to them my respectful greeting and say:  "O class of young people!  Praise be to God, ye are strong in body and are gladdened in spirit by the divine glad-tidings.  Ye must exert an effort and must labour hard.  The light of the oneness of the world of humanity and of universal peace must radiate from your class to the surrounding regions, ye must be the cause of the promulgation of heavenly teachings and must summon the souls to merciful characteristics that they may acquire a Bahá'í training and may be confirmed by divine assistance."
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.
Mabel Rice-Wray
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Mabel Rice-Wray, Detroit, Michigan-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
page 164
HE IS GOD!
O thou pure leaf of the Blessed Tree!
Thy letter was received and its contents noted.  From lack of time a short answer is given, for letters pour down like unto rain from the East as well as from the West.  I have no time for a detailed answer.  In brief it is this:
It is not permissible to hang the sacred picture on the walls of rooms; but to hang the Greatest Name, or the picture of the sacred tomb, or the picture of a spot where His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has been, is permitted.
I pray to God that ye may ever be enkindled with the fire of the love of God, attracted by the fragrances of God, assisted in benevolent deeds, in good and faithful conduct and firm in the Covenant and Testament.  Whatever thou deemest advisable for the promulgation of the Cause, it is acceptable.
As to the election of women, this is a political question.  I avoid all politics, but I say this much, that men and women are both parts of the human branch, and for mankind two wings are necessary.  If either one is weak the bird will not fly, but if both are strong mankind will soar to the exalted summit.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 22 July 1919.
[NOTE:  Mrs Rice-Wray sends the above Tablet to the Star of the West with the following word of explanation:  "I am enclosing the copy of a Tablet received recently and which I feel is not intended for me but for someone who asked the questions which it answers.  And someone may have my Tablet.  Perhaps you have heard of someone who has a Tablet plainly not for them.  Someone surely is looking for this one."-Editors.]
Edward Struven
To his honour, Mr Edward Struven, Beverly, Massachusetts-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast mentioned in it the name of the attracted maid-servant of God, Lua.49  Lua pertained to the Kingdom, was lordly, was merciful and was attracted by the divine fragrances.  That blessed leaf has been the cause of the guidance of many a soul for she was endowed with a heart that was attracted, a tongue that was eloquent and spent her time day and night in teaching.  At present she is calling ye from the Abhá Kingdom saying:  "O ye my children!  Are ye aware of what bounty I have attained?  If so, ye would cast behind this earthly body and would hasten and fly to this Divine Realm."  In fine, Lua has acquired an everlasting fame and an eternal bounty.
Thou hast written concerning the difficulties arising between Labour and Capital, ye may discuss this question at Green Acre.  When I was in America, I delivered different addresses on that subject; get those speeches and discuss the topic in accordance with them.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.
page 165
Kúkab MacCutcheon
To the maid-servant of God, Kúkab MacCutcheon, Chicago, Illinois, care of the maid-servant of God, Mrs True, Chicago, Illinois-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou resplendent Kúkab!
Thy letter was received.  Associate as before with Mrs True and contribute to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár as much as possible.  Strive for unity among the white and the coloured so that colour may no more be taken into consideration but instead the hearts be considered.  The hearts must be illumined, must be pure and white and not the body of man.  Many are the coloured ones who, in the field of faith, have surpassed the white and won the goal, and many are the white who in view of a darkened heart have been deprived of the bounties of God.
In short, five races exist upon the surface of the globe:  the white, black, brown, yellow and red races.  This resembles the different species and colours of doves, but, on the other hand, there is no distinction of colour among them, on the contrary the white, black, yellow, blue, red and purple doves, all associate together in the utmost love and harmony.  How can man who is endowed with reason and intelligence be limited by these considerations of colour?  This is nothing but heedlessness, ignorance and counter to human laws.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 24 July 1919.
Oscar Hanko
To his honour Mr Oscar Hanko, Newark, New Jersey-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of the Divine Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Its contents indicated that at a time when, due to war, the world was in confusion and commotion, thou wert in utmost tranquillity and composure, engaged in servitude to the threshold of the Lord of Hosts, wert serving the Kingdom, wert wishing nothing save the illumination of the world of mankind and had no object but the exaltation of the Word of God and the promulgation of heavenly teachings.  Thus thou hast been confirmed and assisted.
Convey on my behalf to Dr Guthrie and Mr LeDoux the utmost kindness and respect.  On their behalf, at the midnight hour, I pray and entreat at the Threshold of the All-Knowing God and beg assistance, bounty and everlasting blessings.  Undoubtedly they shall be
page 166
confirmed by the heavenly legions and assisted by the Divine Spirit.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 26 July 1919.
Mrs Jennie Anderson
Through his honour, Dr Baghdádí-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-to the maid-servant of God, Mrs Jennie Anderson.
HE IS GOD!
O thou leaf of the Tree of Life!
Your letter has been received.  Because you are exceedingly worthy of an answer, therefore this epistle has been written.
Happy is thy condition for the thickly condensed clouds did not prevent thee from seeing the Sun of Reality.  With thine own ear thou hast heard the call of the Kingdom of God and with thine eye thou hast witnessed the lights of guidance.  Rest thou assured that thou art under the protection of the Lord of Hosts and art considered one of the daughters of the Kingdom.  Appreciate thou this station because this is a great station.
Convey thou, on my behalf, to thy revered husband the utmost kindness.  Likewise, to the children.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, 10 November 1919, revealed 20 September 1919.
Mrs Carpenter
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Carpenter, the Secretary of the Spiritual Assembly, at Santa Paula, California-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou wooer of the love of God!
For a long time I have desired to correspond with thee, but I had no time whatever.  At present as the respected maid-servant of God, Mrs True, is returning to those regions, I am writing thee in brief that thou mayest know that thou art ever within sight and present before me.
I beg for thee from the bounties of God advancement in the Kingdom and nearness to His Highness the Merciful One.  Thy services in the Spiritual Assembly are accepted in the sight of the Almighty and are well known to the friends.  I supplicate thy reward from His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 12 November 1919.
James Simpson
To his honour, Mr James Simpson, Washington, D.C.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of God!
Thy letter and thy poems arrived.  From their contents it became known that, praise be to God, thou art ablaze with the burning fire of the love of God, hast secured a share and portion from the bounty of the Spirit and hast purposed to render a distinguished service to the divine Kingdom and to be the cause of the promulgation of the oneness of mankind.
If it is possible and easy, undertake a journey to North Africa and enkindle there the fire of the love of God and summon the souls to the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh and to the unity of mankind, so that religious, racial, sectarian and worldly prejudice may not remain and all may be brought to a full realization of the Truth.  If thou goest, assuredly the confirmations of God shall assist thee.
page 167
I pray on your behalf that the light of guidance may shine in the hearts, divine bestowals may be extended and heavenly bounty may shine in full radiance.
In this world whatever thou doest is ultimately fruitless save service to the Kingdom of God and to all mankind.
Upon, thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.
Charles Mason Remey50
To Mr Remey-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter was received!  It became the cause of the utmost happiness and rejoicing; for it contained the news that the white and the coloured are gathered in one meeting in America and are associating with each other with infinite love and kindness.  Consider thou the power of the Word of God which has brought together those who were against each other.  To bring the white and the coloured together is considered impossible and improbable, but the breaths of the Holy Spirit will accomplish this fact.
The world of America must be very thankful for this realization; for this enmity and hatred which exist between the white and the coloured races is very dangerous and there is no doubt that it will end in bloodshed unless the penetration of the Word of God, the breaths of the Holy Spirit and the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are diffused amongst them and love instead of hatred is established between the two races.
They must destroy the foundation of enmity and rancour and lay the basis of love and affinity.  The power of the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh will cause the disappearance of this danger from America.
But if Mr M___ was completely attracted to the Kingdom of Abhá these difficulties would not have appeared.
Now he must become a real Bahá'í so that the heavenly army may assist and these troubles may be entirely wiped away.  Write to him to read the supplications and implore toward the Kingdom of Abhá!  He must rest assured that these difficulties will be cleared.
Convey to all the friends of God the wonderful Abhá greeting.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 27 November 1911, Paris, France.
page 168
Dr Hills Cole
Through his honour Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-to his honour Dr Hills Cole-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
The friends of God are most pleased with thee.  They have loosened their tongues in thy praise that thou art firm in the Covenant and Testament and art self-sacrificing in the Path of God.
I hope from the bestowals of the True One that thou mayst advance in the Kingdom of God and become conducive to the guidance of souls.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 28 October 1919, at Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Elizabeth Stevens
To the maid-servant of God, Elizabeth Stevens-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Two letters have been received from thee, one from New York and another from Bermuda.  Verily, thy letter was eloquent and from it the purpose was quite manifest.  Thou didst well to undertake such a good voyage to Bermuda.  I entreat and supplicate to the divine Kingdom and beg for thee the confirmations of the Kingdom.  Rest thou assured, thou shalt be confirmed.  Engage with all the power of thy heart in the promulgation of divine teachings in those islands, and be certain that the doors will be wide opened.
After this war, all men are thirsty for universal peace, and the Divine Teachings lay the foundation of universal peace and promulgate the oneness of the world of humanity.  Praise thou God, that He hast made thee of the chosen and has selected thee for the promulgation of heavenly teachings.  Be assured that thou shalt be confirmed.
Convey on my behalf the utmost love and kindness to the maid-servants of God, Maud Gaudreaux and Agnes Alexander.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.


XI:10, 8 September 1920
page 161
Recent Tablet to the House of Spirituality,51 Chicago
To the members of the House of Spirituality, Chicago-Upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O ye dear friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
The letter which ye had written to the Central States was perused.  My hope is that this Convention for Teaching will remain firm and permanent and that its honourable members will serve the Kingdom of God with utmost unison and harmony, so that the effulgent light of the Sun of Reality may illumine the horizons of America, and the call of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh may reach everywhere.  The teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, like unto the breaths of the Holy Spirit, revives the people.  The favours of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh will encompass all mankind.
'Abdu'l-Bahá feels great attachment towards the Chicago friends, for the call of the Kingdom of God, first of all, reached Chicago and made some souls in that city attracted to the Heavenly Kingdom.  As in the beginning they did before all attain to the Spirit of Life, so should ye now try to preserve this bounty to the end.  Resist ye like unto a firm foundation every violent storm.  Withstand ye like unto a strongly-rooted tree the severe winds.  Be ye released from every thought save that of the Kingdom of God.  Be ye freed from every bond.  Have ye no attachment save that to His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Strive ye day and night with heart and soul so that ye may render some service to the Kingdom of God.  These are virtues which bear fruits, otherwise rootless trees fall to earth by furious winds; weak lamps are extinguished through a breeze; languid bodies become overwhelmed by the slightest attack (accident) and the superficial people run away from Reality, as it is plainly mentioned in the Gospels.
page 162
At all events, O ye friends of God, the tests are verily severe.
It needs a heavenly power so that man may remain firm.
Convey, on my behalf, longing greetings to all the friends of God, one by one.
I intended to go to Chicago by way of the Pacific Ocean, but obstacles appeared, so (at present) I have given up the idea, waiting to see what the will of God will be and what confirmation His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh bestoweth.
Upon ye be the Glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Azízu'lláh Khán S. Bahádur, Mt. Carmel, Palestine, 1 August 1920.


XI:11, 27 September 1920
page 171
Report of Twelfth Annual Mashriqu'l-Adhkár Convention
[Fragment]
...
page 197
[Mr. Windust] ... read a further Tablet revealed 27 June 1919, to the Bahá'í of Persia which we reproduce in full:
"To the members of the Spiritual Committee, Tihrán-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
"HE IS GOD!
"O friends of God!
"The magazine of the Star of the West, notwithstanding great difficulties during the days of the war, has continued until these days of quietness and tranquillity which have come.  Although it had been cut off entirely from Persia, yet it managed to sustain its existence.  Therefore financial hardships obtained.
"But now that war has ended in peace, there must be given regularity to the Star of the West, so that it may circulate throughout the East and the West.  And this is conditioned upon the increase in number of the subscribers.  Therefore the friends in all the provinces of Persia must subscribe to this blessed matter.  Strive ye in the promulgation of this growing magazine only for service to the Cause of God, in order that it may become the means of the stimulation of its editors and for the best regularity of, the institution.
"Likewise, if possible, some of the friends may subscribe to the newspaper Chehreh Nema in Egypt and pay the subscriptions in advance.
"Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
"(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá"


XI:12, 16 October 1920
page 206
A Bahá'í pilgrimage to South America (continued)
Compiled from letters written by Miss Martha Root while enroute.
[First part in Star of the West, Vol. XI:7, pp. 107-111, 113-118.]
On shipboard, in the six-day voyage from Santos to Buenos Aires, there was a great storm.  The cold, the sleet, the general discomfort of nearly every one seasick, tended to make one a little laggard in giving the Message.  Also, these people had been journeying together for four weeks from France and had made their friendships before Miss Martha Root came aboard.  The first one to whom she gave the Message was a young man from the state of Minas Geraes, who is going to engage in commerce between the United States and Brazil, after he completes his language studies.  After reading the Bahá'í books three days he said:  "This is the best of all the religions I have known."  One
page 207
Frenchman seeing the "Greatest Name" in Persian on the book, The Divine Plan, asked her what she was reading.  He knew Arabic and was attracted.  Then there was a young Frenchman, son of the owner of the largest telegraph bureau in Paris, who spoke a little English (only two persons spoke even a little English), and to him she explained the Cause.
Two days later Miss Root suggested they have a "conference" in the dining-room for all the passengers and he interpreted for her the Bahá'í Cause.  It took two days to prepare.  First she explained it to him in halted French, sentence by sentence, the history and vital principles, the young Frenchman repeated it in slow English and then told it in Spanish to a young man who was with him; the Frenchman then wrote it sentence by sentence in his own English, but afterwards wrote it in the most brilliant French.  Almost every one came to the "conference" announced by the Captain for four o'clock, immediately after tea.  The Frenchman read the address, then as friends asked questions, Miss Root begging them to pardon her French, replied.  There were twenty aviators in the audience and all asked for literature.  Later when these aviators disembarked, Buenos Aires met them at the pier with flowers and beautiful ceremonies.  The commandant who is from Argentina was carried off the ship on the shoulders of his countrymen and marched through the principal thoroughfares.  The young Frenchman in saying good-bye added, "I have not always understood well the words you speak, but I understood the life you have, and it is for that I am interested."
__________
September 19th, Miss Root spent in Montevideo, Uruguay, where the French ship stopped for twelve hours.  Her roommate on the ship out from New York lived there.  The latter was an American girl who had married an Uruguayan.  The father-in-law had also been a passenger on the ship.  Miss Root went to their wholesale business house where they took her in a touring car to their beautiful home.  They are people of wealth and distinction.  After lunch and a drive they put a Bahá'í book in the English Club, another was taken to the National Biblioteca which is a part of Montevideo University, an excellent library where other Bahá'í books can be sent.  Then they called upon the editor of the leading paper, El Dia, and he used an article.  Returning to the store, the hostess explained the Bahá'í Cause to the four brothers and a noted physician.
Montevideo has a population of 400,000.  There are 300 journals in Uruguay but they are principally small papers as Montevideo is the capital and is the only large city in this country.  Uruguay is small; its population is 1,400,000-the majority being of Spanish and Italian origin.  The standard of living is very high and the people are broad in their religious views.  International headquarters for much religious and philanthropic work for South America is in Montevideo.
__________
Buenos Aires, capital of Argentina, South America, with its more than a million and a half population, the largest Spanish city in the world, the largest city in South America, and the fourth largest in the western hemisphere, was the scene of Miss Martha Root's pilgrimage for two weeks.  From 20 September to 4 October 1919, this is what occurred:
She did not know one soul in Argentina, but had several letters of introduction, three from the United States, the others gathered along the way.  A chambermaid, by telephone, made an appointment for her to go to the home of Dr Frederico de Valles Vargas, general secretary of the Theosophical Societies of Argentina, at one o'clock.  Dr Vargas and his family had not heard of the Bahá'í Movement, but as soon as
page 211
it was explained, they were deeply impressed.  The doctor and their friends, Mrs Maria Hersch, of Alsace-Lorraine, took Miss Root that afternoon to a Theosophical hall, where arrangements were made for her to address that society in Spanish, through an interpreter, the next Sunday afternoon.  All conversation with the doctor and the Theosophists was in French, as he does not speak Spanish nor they English.  Dr Vargas also arranged for her to meet another group of Theosophists in his home Monday night.  Mrs Maria Hersch, who speaks English well, interpreted.
The doctor saw that Miss Root was properly introduced to the Spanish newspaper and magazine editors.  His friend, a magazine editor, took her to the journals.  One paper, La Prensa, is one of the largest world newspapers.  No other newspaper anywhere is housed so palatially.  It is one of the two most powerful and admirable organs in South America.  Judged by its advertisement spaces it stands on a level with the first of London publications.  Its advertising rates are high so it can do things undreamed by our papers.  Its building, in addition to the splendid plant, contains also a concert hall, lecture rooms, reading rooms, baths, cafes, music rooms, apartments where visitors are entertained, a free dispensary for those who are too poor to pay for a physician and the services of a lawyer are furnished free.
Another paper visited, almost of equally high rank, was the Nacion, famous for its literary articles and said to be the most independent paper in South America.  The Caras y Caretas, whose editor took Miss Root to call upon the director of the Nacion, is said by Argentina authorities to be one of the best magazine publications in all South America.  The visits to newspaper offices were made during two days of torrential, unceasing downpour of rain.  The magazine editor offered to go to the Italian newspapers and magazines in Buenos Aires-there were none that did not use a Bahá'í article sometime during the two weeks.  The Herald had an article each day and several papers sent reporters to each lecture.
Mrs C. G. de Bischoff, a normal school teacher and translator, who had heard of the Bahá'í Cause and had attended a Bahá'í meeting when visiting New York, gave her days and nights to interpreting for Miss Root.  She arranged for an address before the Woman's Club of Short Story Writers at the Phoenix Hotel, Thursday morning.  The owner of the hotel offered a hall and himself paid its rental for a talk Saturday evening on "The Economic Solution of World Problems through the Bahá'í Revelation".  The only advertisement of this meeting was through the newspapers.  It was attended by a most cosmopolitan audience, representing almost every country and religion.  Three magazine editors were present, three reporters, several heads of world firms and teachers from normal schools.  Almost every man in the audience had a clipping of the Bahá'í principles in his pocket.  The whole event showed that the trend of thought in Argentina is towards spiritual freedom.
Wednesday evening, Miss Root addressed the Esperantists.  They have a membership of 400, with two correspondence schools for the provinces.  Their magazine, Argentina Esperantisto, is using an article on the Bahá'í Cause.
Thursday evening, Dr and Mrs Vargas gave a dinner for Miss Root and later at a Theosophical meeting in their home, they read aloud the Bahá'í principles in Spanish.  A celebrated New York inventor, a guest at the dinner, said in an aside to her, "I have travelled up and down South America and I as-
page 212
sure you, you have met the finest people in this country in knowing Dr and Mrs Vargas."  Their hospitality was genuinely delightful, their love for this Bahá'í Cause so great that they not only did all the big things, but all the little ones, too.  They are studying English and will come to the United States in February.  Mrs Hersch will accompany them.  They will visit the Bahá'í Assemblies in North America during their journey across the continent.
The Bahá'í Message was presented to the president of the Single Tag society through the courtesy of the Phoenix Hotel owner.  There are three Suffrage parties in Buenos Aires.  Miss Root met with them four times and spoke for a few minutes at three events.  Her subjects were, "Equality of Men and Women", "Economic Problems" and "Universal Education".  At the first informal meeting when she spoke, they all arose during the Bahá'í talk, as a mark of respect.  Mrs de Bischoff interpreted.  Men as well as women attend the suffrage meetings in Argentina.  Madam Elvira Rawson de Dellepiane, president of the Suffrage Society called "Association Pro-Derechos de la Mujur", gave a tea for Miss Root, and the organization as a whole gave a tea for her later in one of their fashionable clubs.  At the latter tea she met several newspaper women and women authors.  The Bahá'í Revelation was presented at each gathering.  Newspaper reporters and photographers were present at both meetings.
An editor of a Syrian magazine, who attended the Saturday evening lecture, later showed Miss Root an article which he had written ten years ago on the Bahá'í Cause and had never published it.  He is using an article now.  Another prominent Syrian, decorated with the cross of honour recently by the French Government, is editor of La Nota.  He used a two-page article giving a picture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and outlining the vital principles of the Bahá'í teachings.  The magazine is in Spanish.
Still another magazine, Caras y Caretas, used a long article with two photographs.  The Theosophical Magazine, published in Buenos Aires and sent to all countries in South America, used an article with photographs.
Unlike other South American cities, Miss Root found that a few people had heard of the Bahá'í Cause.  An artist there had heard it from Miss Watson in Paris and later Juliet Thompson, of New York, had sent her many Tablets.  Mrs de Bischoff had heard the name through this artist and later had met Mr Pauli and Mr and Mrs MacNutt in New York and attended a Bahá'í meeting in the MacNutt home.  A Frenchman, who attended the lectures, had seen 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Paris.  It was this Frenchman who volunteered to translate Miss Root's history of the Bahá'í Cause into Spanish for the Theosophical Magazine.  He has five books on the Cause written in French, and is loaning these to Dr Vargas to read.  A school girl had heard of this religion while travelling in Switzerland and through the head of her school Miss Root was invited to come there.  A young man came who said he had known of Mr Urbain LeDoux' kindness at the Bowery Stepping Stone in New York.
The trip to South America has convinced Miss Root that while Esperanto is excellent and to be ardently supported, it will only bear its best fruits in the next generation.  Bahá'ís for the decades just ahead must master as many languages as possible.  In order to meet these South Americans half-way, she started in to learn from them Spanish pronunciation and first principles.  One can only do one's best, but every hour spent by a Bahá'í on language study will help some.
__________
The plan was to cross the Andes and come up the west coast to Panama.  As this trans-Andean trip seemed extremely hazardous some of the friends tried to dissuade Miss Root from attempting it.
page 213
The week before she had talked with some who had frozen faces and feet, and some were ill from coming over, and a new storm had stopped all traffic since their arrival.  One American said in a newspaper article published the day before she started:  "If you would consider riding around the edge of the Woolworth building, when it is covered with ice and snow, on a gentle mule, a safe pastime, then have no fears regarding the inconveniences in crossing the Andes in winter."  He told about riding around the cliffs within an inch of a precipice some hundreds of feet high.  He said he wore three suits of woollen underwear, a sweater, a bath robe, overcoat, ponchos, had his feet wrapped with pieces of sack and then nearly froze to death.
Miss Root realized that to return via the Atlantic Ocean meant not to give the Bahá'í Message up the west coast and in Panama, the place 'Abdu'l-Bahá had especially mentioned.  Dr Vargas who knows South America well, assured her she would get through, and she bought her ticket.  She started amid gifts of books, flowers, fruits, candy and lunches.  Mrs de Bischoff brought her own very heavy coat and woollen underwear telling Miss Root to use them and then pass them on to a sister in New York.  She also brought food, sweets, and port wine.  Mrs Vargas said in her new English, so carefully studied:  "I have prepared chicken sandwiches for you myself."  Dr and Mrs Vargas and Madame Hersch brought delights for the spirit, mind and body.  The artist came with another lunch, and other friends with offerings were Theosophists, a Belgian girl, a German, a Scotch woman and a Peruvian.
A New York business diplomat, partner in one of the largest exporting houses, was crossing and had said he would do anything he could for Miss Root.  Her roommate in the "camorata", sleeper of the train, was a charming Italian girl, well educated and fluent in French.  The American looked after both of them with the same efficiency and irresistible manners that have made his business such a success.
Dr Vargas had written and telegraphed the number of the car and camorata to the President of the Theosophical Society in Mendoza, and next morning this stately man (who looks exactly like Tagore) came with a little group of friends.  The wait there was two hours, and they took Miss Root and the Italian girl to breakfast and for a drive.  The Italian girl spoke Spanish and interpreted.  Mendoza is a city of 200,000.  There was time to explain the Bahá'í Message, give them Spanish booklets and Spanish papers explaining the Revelation, and they said they would put articles into the Mendoza newspapers.
The trip by mule-back over the "top of the world", for the Andes are among the highest ranges, the Aconcagua rising to a height of 23,300 feet, was thrilling enough for the most sensational.  To pray the "Greatest Name" among these minarets of God was to glimpse the glory of the Eternal, Unknowable.  The ancient trail led 10,400 feet above sea level.  The people on mule back were infinitesimal specks clinging to mighty terraces-as "ants in an endless and boundless forest"-they huddled on the edge of jagged peaks, frozen chasms, and stiffened mountain torrents.  Everybody felt very small and a wonderful feeling of "camaraderie" sprang up.  Fortunately the sun shone brightly, and the acute cold was not so terrible as all had expected.  The Italian girl being an expert horsewoman, generously gave Miss Root the man she had engaged by telegram to walk beside her mule.  (She had made this journey before and knew very well what to do.)
A detour through one dark tunnel took over an hour in stumbling, slipping blackness in which the frightened mules shied and fell.  Miss Root, as her mule plunged downward into the mouth of the tunnel, gripped the pommel, threw her body far back, closed her eyes, and
page 214
prayed the "Yá Alláh-Al Mústagháth" for all.  Over and over again in that black uncertainty, the clear, vibrant voice of the Italian girl would ring down the line of mules:  "Mademoiselle, are you all right?"  Tears of deepest tenderness spring to the eyes at the thought of such a friend.  The New Yorker's mule was not a good one and he was so far behind Miss Root did not see him before she entered the tunnel.  All started together, but it was not possible to keep together-one does not drive the mule but leaves the sure footed little carrier of destiny to choose his own path.
Later, out from the tunnel, when the procession came to precipitous downward slopes toward Chile, Miss Root could not even see the one inch margin that had been promised by the man in his newspaper account.  To her this was by far the most dangerous part of the journey.  And so it was with great joy that she saw the men getting off their mules and walking farther in down the mountain side.  She did the same for the mules would sometimes slip a yard in this perpendicular path and they were frightened too.  Taking the guide's hand they made the descent together, and when they could not walk they could run!  The warm sun had melted the crisp ice just enough that they could get a foothold.  They stopped every few minutes to breathe as one's breath is very short in this altitude.  Some fainted, some had "puna", which is bleeding of the nose and ears.  Everything given Miss Root was passed along to those who needed it.
The train journey later ended in tropical gardens and orchards of divinely fragrant orange blossoms.  The Italian girl, Miss Root and the New Yorker said they would remember the trip as one of the happiest of incidents.  The custom house inspector at Los Andes has a Bahá'í booklet in Spanish, as has also the mule driver.
The New Yorker's firm in Valparaiso treated Miss Root as a sister.  They put her bags through the customs, had them taken by their own porters to the ship, called a messenger boy to escort her to the Theosophists, later took her to lunch with the New York guest of honour, and all three men took her in a launch to her ship.  She explained the Bahá'í Cause.
__________
Dr Vargas had given her a note of introduction to the President of the Theosophical Society in Valparaiso who speaks both English and Esperanto.  He promised to get articles into Valparaiso papers and to tell the friends in Santiago.  (The train was delayed by storm and Miss Root did not get to Santiago, a city of 300,000 and eleven daily papers.)  Valparaiso has a population of 250,000.  Instead of staying four days in Valparaiso, she only stayed four hours, owing to the Andes storm.
__________
The trip up the west coast on a Chilean ship was immensely interesting.  Grippe had to be the shadow to make one appreciate the sunshine, so the first few places are but memories of trying to get ashore to newspaper offices to explain the Bahá'í Message, then leaning against the friendly lamp posts for strength to drag one's self back to the boat.  An engineer and his wife, who have been in Chile two years and spoke Spanish, went ashore with Miss Root at Coquimbo and Antafogasta and interpreted.
In Iquique, a soldier boy who spoke English, took Miss Root to all four newspapers, but as it was Sunday and Columbus Day, only one was open, but she gave the Message to a small group there.  The editor used an article.  In Africa, the editorial writer of the paper was a woman.  She was much interested in the Bahá'í idea's about women.  She said she would use an article and would be glad to use others later.  As Miss Root left she said in English the one word, "sister!"
During the voyage it was not possible to give a lecture, as most of the people were travelling short distances and the
page 215
passenger list changed frequently; also several different languages were spoken.  Miss Root spoke individually and copies of vital principles of the Bahá'í Cause were later sent by passengers to Australia, New Zealand, Venezuela, Mexico, Panama and Spain.  Some of the passengers came to Miss Root and said:  "We wish to get a booklet about this religion, why did you leave us out?"  The truth was the literature was all gone except a few newspaper and magazine clippings.  (Miss Root bought $50 worth of magazines and daily papers containing the Bahá'í Principles in order to use them in distribution after the 500 booklets were given out.)  On this ship one passenger would tell another, and they came to ask questions so that by the end of the two weeks the Bahá'í Message was well circulated.  One young man, when hearing her tell about the Bahá'í Convention in New York, said:  "Will the Cause grow as rapidly as that in South America?  In twenty-six years will we have a convention like that?"  Others were very much interested in the Temple to be built in Chicago.
__________
Lima, in Peru, the seat of the old Inca civilization, was the most important city visited after leaving Valparaiso.  Its population is 250,000.  Dr Vargas had given Miss Root letters of introduction to nineteen cities and towns and four were to his friends in Lima which is his native city-one was to a newspaper owner, one to a senator, and two to physicians.  As Lima is a half-hour's ride from the port Callao, and the ship only stopped three hours in the early morning, it was a problem how to get there, find these men, and get back on time.  On the electric tram Miss Root met two young men from the ship who spoke English and Spanish.  They took her to the leading hotel to inquire from the manager how to reach these people.  He was an old man and wonderfully kind.  He told Miss Root to sit down and write her message to each man and he would take them with her letters of introduction, Bahá'í booklets and magazine clippings to each man.  He assured her the newspaper owner would use an article and volunteered to translate it into Spanish.  It was all done so easily and quickly, and the two young men from the ship, getting interested, mailed to their sisters in Australia and New Zealand, Bahá'í booklets from that hotel.  After Callao no more letters of introduction could be used as the ship was not allowed to stop at any more ports owing to fever conditions.
On the last day of the voyage the passengers asked Miss Root to give a lecture on the Bahá'í Cause in the music room.  It was announced to be given in English, but when the friends came some asked to have it in Spanish, so a Mexican gentleman interpreted, and it was given in both English and Spanish.  There was such a warmth of interest and everybody seemed happy.  Some of those present were en route to Japan, Spain, France, Germany, Panama, Venezuela, Iona, California, Oklahoma and New York.  Each one was given a clipping or something which explained a little of the Cause.
'Abdu'l-Bahá said in regard to the Panama Canal Zone:  "Likewise, ye must give great attention to the Panama Canal Zone, for in that point the Occident and Orient find each other united through the Panama Canal, and it is also situated between the two great oceans.  That place will become very important in the future.  The teachings once established there, will unite the East and the West, the North and the South."
Miss Root spent one week in the Canal Zone.  Arriving in Panama Saturday noon, 25 October, the first visit was to the Star and Herald office, the oldest newspaper.  It is printed one-half in English and one-half in Spanish.  The editor, a young man who had heard of the Bahá'í Movement in California, used
page 216
a column and a half about the Cause, giving it a prominent place.  Miss Root asked if there were any clubs or churches where she could speak.  He told her of a big event which was to be given that evening in the fashionable Ancon Club house for the Roosevelt Memorial fund and suggested the men to see.  As a result, a ten-minute talk was given there where Miss Root explained what 'Abdu'l-Bahá had said about the Canal Zone and she gave the vital principles.  Four hundred people were present.
There is a Union Church in Balboa (the American city which adjoins Panama, the older city of the Republic of Panama).  One can only see where one city ends and the other begins by the architecture and the beautiful grounds of the American part.  Everything that the United States has built in the Zone has been high in standard.  The place may well be considered a demonstration of ideals in living for the world, coming and going, to see and learn.  This Union Church is composed of people of all denominations of the Protestant faith.  They gave Miss Root twenty minutes at their evening service and the editor of their church magazine said he would use a column about the Bahá'í Cause in his journal bringing in what 'Abdu'l-Bahá said about the Canal Zone.
The Cause was explained to the editor of the Despatch, a newspaper for the coloured people, and he used a story.
An attempt was made to visit the Leper Colony at Palesaco, near Panama, but the winds were so high that in attempting to land in the little boats, two men in the launch ahead fell into the sea, so the Doctor ordered Miss Root's launch back, but she explained the Bahá'í Revelation to the Doctor and to the wife of the Superintendent, and sent the lepers Thornton Chase's leaflet, Before Abraham Was, and Unity Through Love, by Mr MacNutt, and four boxes of candy.  There are seventy lepers there, seven of them children.
The Message was also given to the doctors of the Canal Zone ports, to the British Minister, and to several of the American Government officials.  In a journalistic way, Miss Root met the heads of all the Government works.
In the Canal Zone there are opportunities to get excellent positions clerking, stenography, nearly every kind of work one would find in the States.  The climate is warm and the life extremely pleasant.  It is said that the Panama Canal Zone within a decade or two will be quite as popular as Palm Beach as a winter resort.  The Bahá'í who settles there and builds up an assembly will be doing a work that will influence every part of the globe.  It is the most central place in the world, where in the centuries just ahead the long lines of commerce and travel will pour up and down, back and forth.  The old Roman philosopher who said if he had only had a place on which to stand he would take a lever and move the world, would find that place today in the Panama Canal Zone.  Some day someone will build a great university on the heights of the Panama Canal Zone; how glorious if it could be a Bahá'í seat of learning!
Leaving Colon for Havana, a five-day trip, Miss Root went to the captain of the ship, showed her credentials and explained the Bahá'í Cause, asking him for permission to give a talk.  He arranged for her to speak on Sunday morning at eleven o'clock.  Nearly every one came.  The passengers were principally from the Southern States and Havana.  It was the only event that took place in the social hall during the journey and the people came promptly.
If any one feels timid about asking opportunities to speak, let him remember that no day comes twice to any servant in the Cause, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said to "roar like a lion the Words of God", and "sing like a bird the Melodies of the Kingdom".  The Great Heart will not falter and the world is ready!
Alláh-u-Abhá!


XI:13, 4 November 1920
page 224
Messages from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to all the friends
Given to Mrs A. J. Parsons, at Haifa, 15 February 1920.
"You must think now of spiritual affairs.  Try to enlighten the morals and try to spread the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, so that this fire of dissension which is burning in the world may be extinguished.  It is impossible for the different nations and parties which exist now-such as socialists, Bolshevists, the extremists or radicals, strikers and those who wish for absolute authority, to leave these dissensions and be united-save through Bahá'u'lláh's teachings.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are like the sun and these dissensions are like the darkness.  This darkness cannot be dispelled except through the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  The snow of disagreement has covered all the world and this snow cannot be melted except through the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh declare the unity of the world.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are a shining reality.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh will dispel all national disunion, all racial disunion, and the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh will conquer the economic difficulties.  This is the essence of questions.  You must all try to give life to the dead people, to make the blind see, the deaf hear, and to give all the help you can to the poor.  This is what attracts heavenly assistance."
"Now you are going on your way home.  For each one you must have a message.  Convey to all my greetings and tell them that they are all my friends, my very dear friends and the servants of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, and for this reason they are dear to me.  I am always thinking of them and I am constantly praying for them in the Kingdom of Abhá, so that they may become lighted candles, so that the light of guidance may radiate from them, so that they may become shining stars in the Heaven of Truth, that the light of Truth
page 225
may shine in this world, so that they may be the comforters of the people, so that they may live in accord with one another, so that they may sacrifice their own souls in the service of one another, so that they may be the consolers of the poor, so that they may be the kind parents of the orphans and so that they may relieve the sick.  Convey this message."


XI:13, 4 November 1920
page 229
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Chas. Mason Remey
Through the faithful soul, Táhirih, the wife of his honour Consul Schwarz, Stuttgart, Germany, to his honour, Mr (Charles Mason) Remey-Unto him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou enlightened beloved son!
Praise be unto God, that thou didst arrive at Leipzig safe and sound; didst
page 230
see the brilliant faces of the friends of God, and didst enjoy the spirituality and love of the German friends.  Verily, verily, the German friends are luminous, spiritual and heavenly.  They are spreading the oneness of humanity, they are in peace with all the nations of the world, and practice love and kindness towards all the religions of the world.  They are self-sacrificing in the path of the Kingdom, and are firm and steadfast in the Covenant and Testament.  Thou art unquestionably in the utmost joy and rapture now that thou art mingling and associating with those blessed souls.
It is my hope that thy present trip will give rise to great results.  Convey on my behalf, love and affection to all the friends, the servants and the maidservants of God!
Unto thee be the Glory of God!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, 20 August 1920, Mount Carmel, Palestine.


XI:13, 4 November 1920
page 230
Recent Tablets to the Bahá'ís of Germany
Tablet to Stuttgart
Through his honour Áqá Mírzá Azízu'lláh Khán Bahádur-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!-to the friends of God and the maidservants of the Merciful, Stuttgart, Germany-Upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
...
HE IS GOD!
O ye real friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
The letter of Miss Doring was perused.  Praise be to God, it had the glad-tidings of your firmness and steadfastness; of your attraction to the divine breathings and enkindlement with the fire of the love of God.  Praise be to God, that ye are all brilliant candles and trees of the Paradise of Abhá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá feels great attachment to the Stuttgart friends.  His nostrils are perfumed with the fragrance of those flowers and his heart is exceedingly delighted with the lustre of those blessed souls.  Therefore it is certain that the teachings of the Most High, Bahá'u'lláh, will, in that region and country, spread to the utmost and souls from Germany will like unto the candles enkindle and radiate streaming beams in all directions.
Therefore I am giving ye the glad-tidings that the glance of favour is directed upon ye, and the rays of the Sun of Reality are the adornment of your hearts.  There is no confirmation greater than this.  This is because the distasteful smell of violation has not, up to this time, reached that blessed region.
Some Persian enemies, however, from the followers of Yahyá (Azal) are in the region of Berlin, who in various underhand ways are striving to penetrate into
page 231
the community of the friends and deposit like unto the snake their poison and give false impressions.  Ye should be very watchful of this, not admitting these souls in your meetings and assemblies.
Everyone who has in his hand a letter of permission to associate with the friends, written and signed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá ye may associate with him, else ye should avoid and abstain.  No individual of ye is permitted to associate with them because the diseases of the spirit are like unto the diseases of the body and like unto plague, cholera and cancer will infest.
Ye should be in the utmost union and harmony with the formal community of the friends, that is the "Bahai Bund" and communicate with it with love so that in Germany there may exist but one ardour, one feeling, one attachment and union in order that this may penetrate throughout the world.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, 9 April 1920, Haifa, Palestine.  Received by Mrs Consul Schwarz.
Tablet to Alma Knobloch
Through Áqá Mírzá Azízu'lláh Khán Bahádur-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!-to the maid-servant of God, Miss Alma Knobloch, Stuttgart, Germany-Upon her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou maid-servant of the Kingdom of God!
Thy letter has been received.  Its contents indicated that thou didst desire to go to Leipzig so that thou mightest spread the divine breath there, but there appeared some obstacle.  Now no obstacle hath remained.
Before going to America thou shouldst busy thyself with the service so that the love of God in Leipzig may effervesce with enthusiasm.
...
I beseech the Most High Bahá'u'lláh that through His grace, He may endear these souls both in this world and that of the Kingdom, so that they may become the emblems of guidance.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, 30 January 1920, Haifa, Palestine.


XI:13, 4 November 1920
page 232
Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Bahá'ís in America
Louise Smith
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Louise Smith, Cleveland, Ohio-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Two letters have been received from thee.  Thou hast a highly praiseworthy wish and that is service to the Kingdom of God, service to the oneness of the world of humanity, the training of children at the home of Mrs Kibby and the promotion of the question of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  All these intentions are acceptable at the Threshold of the Almighty.  I therefore pray God that thou mayest be confirmed in service, so that these children may be trained by a divine education and may each become aware of the inner realities and significances.
Convey, on my behalf, to the friends in Cleveland, longing greeting.  I hope that the love of God may become the cause of their union and harmony and the power of the Covenant may do away with this difference.  Today, no power can do away with this difference save the power of the Covenant of the Blessed Beauty, for a specially appointed Centre has been appointed by the Supreme Pen to which all differences must be submitted and which settles all differences.  Whatever he says is right, for, in accordance with the explicit command, all are ordered to turn their faces toward that Centre, and he is the expounder of the Book.  Thus it is made evident and manifest that the power of the Covenant is the power which solves all difficulties.
...
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 2 August 1919.
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
Through Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, New York City-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of the Holy Threshold!
Thy cablegram was received, and immediately a cablegram of congratulation and felicitation was sent.  Undoubtedly it has reached thee.  This news became conducive to exceeding rejoicing.  It is strongly hoped from the favour of the Blessed Perfection that it may be consummated in the most perfect manner.  Rest thou assured that there will arise no obstacle and no impediment.  Give thou importance to this matter, and manifest thou magnanimity in its regard.
In all those regions exercise thou the utmost vigilance and caution-so that nostrils may be protected from the evil odour, and eternal death may not creep over souls.  Give thou importance to this fundamental principle; for, if a thousand able-bodied, healthy souls, with utmost freshness and elegance, associate with a sick consumptive the health of those thousand souls will not affect the consumptive, but the illness of that consumptive will be communicated in a short time to those healthy bodies.  Therefore, do thou protect the souls as far as thou art able.  Send away the sickly looking consumptive.  There is no other recourse.  According to the texts of the Sacred Verses, one must refrain from associating with the wicked.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Denver, Colorado, 12 February 1920.


XI:14, 23 November 1920
page 235
His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá
From The Bahá'í Proofs, by Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl.
As to the birth and life of His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá-Glorified is his Name!-he was born, in Tihrán, on the 5th day of the month Jamádíyu'l-Avval, AH 1260 (23 May 1844), the same day in which the "First Point" (the Báb)-Exalted is his Supreme Name!-had declared himself.  He was reared in that city under the training of Bahá'u'lláh.  The author has heard from his own blessed lips, as well as from many others, that he very often suffered persecution and execrations, while yet a child, from the fanatics of Tihrán, during the disasters which followed the appearance of the Báb.  When Bahá'u'lláh was in chains in the prison of Tihrán, 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited him.  During the time Bahá'u'lláh resided at Baghdád by command of the Persian Government, AH 1269 (1852-1853), His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, was in his service and constantly in his presence.
Although he had not studied in any school, yet, from his youth, fountains of knowledge flowed in his fluent explanations.  The first trace which emanated from his Holy Being in the world of knowledge was the treatise he wrote in his early youth at Baghdád.  This was a commentary upon the holy tradition:  "I was an invisible Treasury; as I loved to be known, therefore I created men to know Me."  He wrote this commentary in answer to the request of one of the Páshás.  The author was present at a meeting, when some one asked Hájí Siyyid Javád-i-Karbilá concerning the life of Bahá'u'lláh.  The great Siyyid answered:  "That holy being must be a shining Light whose great son hath written such a treatise during his childhood."  By this the learned Siyyid meant that while it is impossible even for a scholar to show forth such great knowledge, how much more impossible would it be for a person to write such a treatise in his childhood without having studied.  Therefore, such knowledge is heavenly and not earthly; it is Divine wisdom, not human, and it owes its origin to the Holy Spirit of God.
Thus, even in his childhood, the signs of grandeur and dignity were manifest from his brow and he showed forth phenomenal intelligence and wisdom.  His wonderful speech in explaining abstruse points astonished men of intelligence, and his marvellous eloquence everywhere attracted hearts and souls.  His acute judgement was a brilliant lamp in elucidating intricate obscurities and his penetrative discernment in managing and deciding different affairs improved the condition of young and old.  He was the companion of Bahá'u'lláh and the sharer of his afflictions during his successive banishments from Baghdád to Constantinople, thence to Adrianople, and finally to 'Akká.  All the people of Bahá resorted to him in their difficulties and obeyed his decision.  More especially during the twenty-four years of Bahá'u'lláh's residence at 'Akká, the troubles of 'Abdu'l-Bahá were so great that no one but himself could have endured such calamities.  The very fact that 'Akká was a place of exile for Turkish suspects and prisoners, meriting the name "Great Prison", given to it by the Supreme Pen, is a sufficient testimony of the tribulations and vicissitudes which
page 236
'Abdu'l-Bahá has suffered.  For, as we have formerly remarked, Bahá'u'lláh, during his residence at 'Akká, would not, as a rule, converse with any save the Bahá'ís, unless some one especially asked permission to visit him.  His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, however, held intercourse with all the men of different religions, aims, tastes, characters, and degrees, and each one would submit to him his individual wishes.  Consequently, different classes and nationalities of Muslims, Christians, Bahá'ís, Arabs and Turks, as well as Persians belonging to the governing and learned classes, likewise great merchants and people of the lower orders, visited him from early morning until midnight.  Some of them sought his presence for the benefit of his spiritual explanation; others for their personal affairs and requests.  Any one informed upon the manners of oriental governments, and thoroughly acquainted with the conditions of the inhabitants of those countries, will realize the great difficulties which surrounded that holy being.  He, under all circumstances, would receive the people with a cheerful face, and endeavour as far as possible to grant their wishes and assist them.  Even in the present day, His Holiness is the resort of the people of that land, and all refer their wishes and hopes to him.  He is a physician to every invalid, a shelter to every exile, a refuge to every seeker for help, and a dispeller of sorrow to every grieved soul.  As God knows and witnesses, the author, during the ten months he stayed as guest in his beneficent shelter, can testify that even those fettered in the jail and deprived of seeing the daylight, received his benefits and favours; and exiles forsaken in the cells of oblivion were visited by him.  These excellent characteristics were inborn in him, and no one can show forth such virtues through imitation or pretence.  Even the greatest men in the world could not manifest their like.
There is an old proverb:  "Nothing manufactured is like unto the natural."
'Abdu'l-Bahá was named Mírzá 'Abbás after his grandfather, but subsequent to their arrival at Baghdád, he was called "His Holiness, the Master".  After the declaration of the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh], he was given several lofty titles by him, such as "Sirru'lláh" (Mystery of God), "Ghusn-u'lláhu'l-A'zám" (Greatest Branch of God).  By these titles he was addressed verbally and in writing by Bahá'u'lláh and all the believers.
In the earlier days of Bahá'u'lláh's declaration, the blessed Book of Aqdas was revealed.  This is considered the greatest Book of the Bahá'ís, and contains all the Divine Laws and Ordinances.  The following irrefutable command was revealed therein:
"When the ocean of My presence hath ebbed and the Book of My Revelation is ended, turn your faces toward Him Whom God hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root."52  Likewise it is recorded in another part of the same Book:  "When the Mystic Dove will have winged its flight from its Sanctuary of Praise and sought its far-off goal, its hidden habitation, refer ye whatsoever ye understand not in the Book to Him Who hath branched from this mighty Stock."53
Thus all the people of Bahá were informed of the One who would be the "Centre of the Cause of God" and their resource, after the disappearance of the Sun of Truth and the departure of the Beauty of Oneness.  Thus they have hope in and rely upon this providence shown forth by God, the Exalted, to them.  They recognize in 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the expounder of the Divine Book and the solver of the intricate points of the Heavenly Revelation; whose decision is conclusive; through whose explanation every discord and divergence is removed, and the seekers are brought to perfect realization, accord and affinity.  They thank and praise God, the Exalted, and manifest the utmost joy and happiness at his appointing the resort of the Cause of God.
To the people of Faith, the clear ap-
page 237
pointment of the Centre of the Cause, after the departure of the Manifestation, is considered the most important point in religious matters, as it is the greatest channel which connects the servants of God with Holy and Divine Truth.  For it is only through his explanation and decision that all discord is removed.  Consequently the Bahá'ís appreciate the determining of the "Appointed Centre" as the greatest of the Divine Providences, and account his blessed being as an impregnable fortress which protects the Divine Religion from the doubts of the sceptic and fanciful imaginations of men.  They were all sure and convinced that the purpose of God, the Exalted, in these two blessed verses, has been no other than His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá; for, apart from the Divine signs that were manifest in him, Bahá'u'lláh clearly and implicitly, verbally and in writing, directed all of his servants to the blessed person of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and, under all circumstances, clearly showed that he was far distinguished above others, in order that all the servants should look unto him alone, and follow his commands.  But notwithstanding all this, as Bahá'u'lláh foresaw, that when his beauty of Oneness was concealed under the veils of disappearance, the people of desire, through jealousy, would hold to groundless doubts and suspicions, and, disregarding the prohibition to interpret the Book, would divert the real meaning of the two verses above quoted, away from the "Appointed Centre".   He, therefore, prior to his departure, revealed the blessed Kitáb-i-'Ahd (Book of the Covenant, the Will of Bahá'u'lláh).  This he wrote, and sealed it with his own blessed hand and seal, in order that the darkness of discord might not again obscure the brilliant horizon of the Cause of God, and the calamities and disasters which afflicted other religions might not overtake this movement.  In this Book (His Covenant) he clearly indicated that the purpose of the "Branch extended from the Ancient Root", revealed in the blessed verse of Aqdas, was the Centre of the Circle of Names, the Exalted Branch of the Blessed Tree of Abhá, His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Then he, for the second time, enjoined, through an unchangeable and irrefutable command, all his "branches", "twigs", "relatives" and the people of Bahá without exception, to look unto that dawning-place of Divine Light, and to know him as the source and origin of the commands and prohibitions of the Heavenly Religion.  He desired, by this clear elucidation, to counteract the imaginations of the ignorant, extinguish the world-consuming flame of the jealousy and hatred of people of error, and guard the Divine Religion from divisions and sects which are, according to the judgement of common-sense and the clear texts of the holy Tablets of God, the most deplorable for religion and humanity.  By this he sought to preserve the Divine Word from human doubts, suspicions and artifices.
But alas!  All these clear texts of God, commanding people to turn to the day-spring of the Light of the Covenant, did not check the evil thoughts of the people of discord; and his repeated exhortations and advices did not soften the hard hearts of the men of hostility, nor prevent them from ruinous discords and divisions, for when, in May, AD 1892 (2nd Dhi'l-Qa'dih, AH 1309), Bahá'u'lláh ascended to His Most Holy Station, and nine days after his departure, the Book of the Covenant of God was chanted in the Holy Tomb in the assembly of believers, the gloom of animosity and disappointment became instantly manifest upon the faces of those who had groundless pride and desire for leadership, and who sought to raise discord and contradiction.  On the other hand, cheerfulness and joy were manifest in the shining faces of those who had no desire but that of seeking the Truth and telling the Truth.  Some were seated upon the right hand of certainty, firmness and steadfastness in the solid
page 238
Covenant of God, and some stood upon the left hand of unhappiness, in their impossible desire and erroneous thoughts.  The former became distinguished for their firmness and inflexibility; noted for the effectiveness of their word; their good name and success in assisting the Cause, while the latter were distinguished by their instability, degradation and shame.  From that day, the thorn of violating the Covenant of God grew in the Garden of the Bahá'í community and the signs of senseless hatred and hostility proceeded from a limited number of persons who are known as the "náqidín" (violators of the Covenant). ...
Although these people who violated the Covenant received, during the life of Bahá'u'lláh and after his departure, every kindness and favour from His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who considered their welfare and prosperity before his own and that of the faithful believers, yet, on account of jealousy and selfishness, they violated the Cause of God.  Thus came to pass that which was prophesied by the prophets-especially Christ-concerning the people of the right hand and the people of the left hand; and each will receive the reward of his deeds according to the justice of God.  Two important points increased the flame of the fire of jealousy in the hearts of these náqidín, whose number does not exceed thirty.  One was that the Bahá'ís of all countries refused to accept the seditious books and pamphlets forwarded to them by the náqidín.  According to the command of Bahá'u'lláh they unanimously determined not to pay any attention to these intrigues and temptations, but took shelter, with the utmost union and harmony, under the banner of the Centre of the Covenant.  Another point was that during a short space of time the Cause of God became far more widely spread than before, through the fluent pen and brilliant explanations of 'Abdu'l-Bahá ; so the number of the Bahá'ís became enormously multiplied since the departure of Bahá'u'lláh.  The fame of the dawning-place of the Light of the Covenant spread throughout all regions, and his holy Tablets became scattered as rose-petals throughout all countries.  His great name filled the world with awe and the renown of his glorious deeds reached all in the East and West.


XI:14, 23 November 1920
page 238
'Abdu'l-Bahá's supplication and declaration of his servitude
HE IS GOD!
My God, my God!  I ask thee to forgive everything save my servitude to Thy Supreme Threshold, and I declare myself innocent of any announcement or praise save my adoration in Thy Merciful Presence.  I isolate myself from every garment save that of humiliation and contrition of my evanescence to Thy Lordly Oneness.  I flee from every station save the arrival to the Court of Thy Lordly Everlastingness.  By Thy Power, verily, the sweetness of servitude is the food of my spirit, with the fragrance of servitude my breast will be dilated, my being will be refreshed, my mind will be quickened, my heart will be delighted, my eyes cleansed, my nostrils will be perfumed, and in it the healing of my disease, the allaying of my burning thirst, the soothing of my pain.
Immerse me, O my God, in this most bounteous, rolling ocean, give me to drink of this sweet, abundant water, cause me to enter this gateway of righteousness, ordain me for this praiseworthy station, cause me to obtain this cup which is over-flowing with the pouring water, light in the crystal of my heart this lamp which is giving forth its illuminating, brilliant radiance and strengthen me for the service of Thy Cause, O my Lord, the Forgiver!  Accept my servitude in the Court of Thy Holy Oneness, O Thou, the Manifestor
page 239
of Mount Sinai!  Assist me to abide in its conditions, O Thou, the Authority of Manifestation.  Aid me to assist Thy Cause in the eastern and western parts of the earth, O Thou, the Possessor of the Day of Resurrection.  I ask Thee, by Thy written Book, dispersed writings; by Thy Hidden Mystery, and Thy defended allusions, to cause me to be firm to Thy servitude, O my Lord, the Forgiver!  Verily, Thou art the Powerful, above what Thou wishest, and verily, Thou are the Merciful and Most Compassionate!
O thou who art calling by the Testament, in the Pivot of the horizons!
This servant, according to the clear statements in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, and the unambiguous texts of the Kitáb-i-'Ahd, is the Commentator, and the Explainer of the texts of God.  All the faithful ones, who are assured and firm in the Testament and Covenant of God, must neither overreach the clear explanation of this servant, nor the unambiguous interpretation of this slave.  If anyone overreaches, he follows his own suppositions.  This servant gives the real meaning, and the meaning of the real also.  The Mystery of mysteries of the texts, words and lines, is servitude to the Holy Presence of the Beauty of Abhá, and effacement, evanescence and perfect dispersion before the Blessed Threshold.  This is my brilliant diadem, and my glorious crown.  With this I will be glorious in the Heavenly Kingdom, and the earthly.  And with it, I will vie with the beauty among the nearest ones to God, and no one is allowed to interpret other than this, and this is the perspicuous truth.
O thou, who are proclaiming the mentioning of God!  The indicated Commentator is the Interpreter of the Words, and this servant is aside from praise, qualities, names, characteristics, virtues, peculiarities, eulogies and honours; but my name, being, reality and personality are servitude to the Beauty of Abhá, and I am not worthy to be considered as having the shadow of arising.  As the Manifestation (Bahá'u'lláh) said:  "Plant this Branch in the ground of the hearts, and make it holy from shadow and arising."


XI:14, 23 November1920
page 240
Tablet to Mr and Mrs Howard MacNutt
To their honours Mr and Mrs Howard MacNutt, Brooklyn, N.Y.-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two blessed souls!
Your letter was received.  Praise be to God! ye are glad, ye are full of joy and fragrance, and are safe and protected under the shelter of the Merciful One.  Today those who are firm in the Covenant are soaring by the Bounties of the Holy Spirit in lofty regions, while the wavering ones are depressed, dejected and afflicted with a thousand pains and calamities.  This is because the confirmations of the Abhá Kingdom have been cut off from them.  They have been deprived of the Light of the Sun of Truth and have had no share from the breezes of the Holy Spirit.  They resemble those souls who arose to agitate the minds of men after the time of Christ.  Each one, by every subtle means, gathered around himself a group of souls, but all were eventually led to face disappointment, loss and failure.  This was because the result of their principles was like unto a tree destitute of roots, or like the ocean foam.  A rootless tree, no matter how tall and hardy it may seem, will ultimately wither away, and the ocean foam, however formidable it may appear, shall at last vanish and disappear.
Arius, the patriarch at Constantinople, gathered around himself a million and a half followers.  He even secured the adherence of the Emperor, but as
page 241
his basis was not secure, he vanished and was exterminated.  What then will the violators do who are only a small number of feeble and insignificant souls?  For thirty years they have endeavoured and at last they succeeded in drawing around them a few thoughtless persons and some unbalanced and undignified women.  Soon ye shall see that even this small group will scatter.
How strange it is in America!  When I went to Green Acre, I saw an idolatrous East Indian, insignificant, unpleasant and offensive in appearance-whom even animals would avoid; he had gathered around himself a group of people, had chosen a distant tree, and every morning before sunrise would run and hasten barefooted toward it, accompanied by a number of women.  They would reach it tired and exhausted, and there would fall upon the ground as if they were worshipping an idol from among the idols of India.  After several days had elapsed, by subtle methods he begged a few dollars from those persons and then returned to India.
In brief, my purpose is to show that whatever call is raised or proclaimed in America, a group will doubtless gather around it; while, on the other hand, the Oriental Friends (Bahá'ís) are firm like unto the immovable mountains.  For thirty years have the violators striven to undermine the Cause, but they have failed even to attract to their side their own kindred and relatives.  That is why, undoubtedly, in Persia, twenty thousand Bahá'ís have been martyred and severe tests have been brought about.  Yet, praise be to God! not even a single soul among the Friends wavered.  The violators in America do nothing but flatter, seduce and show a love that is insincere.  Consider what they did to poor Lua (Getsinger) and how unfaithful they have been to her!
In short, take into consideration the outcomes and not the beginning.  Every follower of error mentions the name of Truth, and even the enemies of Christ have declared in the name of God that Christ was a liar and an infidel-that He destroyed the foundation of honour, that He was the breaker of the Sabbath day and the associate of immoral persons.  Although outwardly this charge was upholding the Cause of the Old Testament, and took into consideration the Religion of God, yet the underlying purpose was nothing but to overthrow the Divine Structure and to debase the exalted Christ.  Although on the surface they seemed to defend the Cause of God, yet inwardly their purpose was manifest error.
Finally, ye know how considerate I have been with some souls-how much love and kindness I have shown them and at last found out that the Cause of God would be disgraced.  I refused the three thousand pounds which ye gathered for the expense of my travel to America, and during my sojourn in that land did not accept anything from any person.  Then I saw that secretly and for varied motives, unworthy actions were being manifested.  Consider my feelings!  My purpose was to demonstrate the independence and contentment of the Servants of God.  Ye know that I did not accept anything from any person and acted in accordance with the admonition of Christ, who said that whenever ye leave a city, shake off even its dust from your shoes.  Notwithstanding that unworthy behaviour, I was still patient.  All were my guests.  I daily paid their expenses, showed them the utmost loving consideration and then paid fully to all of them their entire expenses.  Up to the present time, after all this assistance and love, this has been my reward.  What will be the recompense of those who have not shown this love and consideration?
In brief:  The Covenant is like unto the ocean which preserves Bahá'í Unity, and these souls are like unto the foam upon it.  They manifest a tem-
page 242
porary activity, but soon, like unto Judas Iscariot and his associates and those who approved of his conduct, they shall be completely forgotten.  The ocean of the Covenant, on the other hand, is eternally surging, for it preserves Bahá'í Unity.
At present arise ye with all your power to promulgate the Covenant and expound these matters to those who are weak and feeble and tell them that communities after Christ have opposed this clear and explicit declaration when He said to Peter:  "Thou art the rock and upon this rock I shall build My Temple", and have thus been wholly deprived of the breaths of the Holy Spirit and have been ruined and exterminated.
Today, the Lord of Hosts is the defender of the Covenant, the forces of the Kingdom protect it, heavenly souls tender their services, and heavenly angels promulgate and spread it broadcast.  If it is considered with insight, it will be seen that all the forces of the Universe, in the last analysis serve the Covenant.  In the future it shall be made evident and manifest.  In view of this fact, what can these weak and feeble souls achieve?  Hardy plants that are destitute of roots and are deprived of the outpourings of the cloud of mercy will not last.  What then may be expected from the young weeds?
Consider what a commotion the Theosophists have produced in Europe and America.  At present their influence is waning, for their foundation was not as strong as it should be.  What then will the violators do?
The days I spent as a guest at your home will never be forgotten, for through the Divine Bestowals and the breaths of the Holy Spirit, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was so stirred that the effect will not pass from memory.  I pray God that those days may be renewed.  Strive as much as ye are able not to sell that house; let it remain permanently a sign (or memorial) of yourselves.54  I often think of you and desire that you become a hotly enkindled flame, bestowing heat and light upon the surrounding regions.  Not until the power of heat is intensified in the body of man, will growth and development take place as they should.
I supplicate and entreat to the Abhá Kingdom and beg again for ye a fresh confirmation.  I beseech for Mr MacNutt the fluency of Peter and the eloquence of Paul.
Convey on my behalf the utmost love and kindness to the two respected souls, Victor Harvell and Roy Herrick.  My hope is that they may be confirmed in service to the Kingdom of God and may secure every day a new power.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
P.S.-Thy last letter, dated 21 July 1919, has been received.  It imparted the glad tidings of the promulgation of the Word of God in those regions.  For 'Abdu'l-Bahá no joy and pleasure remain save in the glad tidings of the exaltation of the Word of God.  Therefore as thou hast written of the efforts put forth by the friends for the diffusion of the Divine Fragrance and hast mentioned that thy time is confined to raising the Call of the Kingdom and consecrated in service to the Cause of God, this news was considered as glad tidings, and my hope is that thou mayest attain remarkable confirma-
page 243
tions and mighty assistance.  He says that whosoever draws a span nearer to God, Divine Providence will approach a metre toward him.  Assuredly if man rises as he ought to in service to the Kingdom, the Spirit of the Divine Kingdom will encompass him.
Concerning the book about which thou hast written in thy letter:  It is highly suitable for thee to write such a book, and if this effort is realized, it is highly acceptable.  Convey on my behalf to the respected maid-servant of God, Mrs MacNutt, the utmost love and kindness.  If the principle of amity and unity, which is one of the principles of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, is strengthened among the friends-and if firmness in the Covenant renders the breakers of the Covenant hopeless and at a loss,-this like unto a magnetic power will attract 'Abdu'l-Bahá to America.
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 24 July 1919.


XI:14, 23 November1920
page 239
Some important commands from the Centre of the Covenant
page 243
"That which has come forth from the Centre of the Covenant you must take fast hold of.  That which issues from my lips and that which is written with my pen is the Reality.  With this you can irrigate the vineyard of God.  With this you can make the tree of the Cause of God become verdant.  Through this the Name of the Kingdom of God will be spread all over the world.  Through this the Sun of Reality will shine.  Through this the clouds of Mercy will pour down.  Whosoever utters a word you must ask:  'Where is the authority of the Centre of the Covenant?  Show it.'  Without this you must not listen to him.  If an angel comes down from heaven and has no authority from the Centre of the Covenant, you must require his authority.  Otherwise the vineyard will become withered and dry.  This is the reality."
In New York City, July, 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to several believers:  "Any one quoting me must have authority written either with my own hand, or Tablets signed with my seal.  Otherwise these statements do not belong to me.  Every instruction, every teaching that I desire to spread I will write with my own hand.  You must know this generally.  Never accept any statement without my writing which is signed and sealed-any statement."
(Signed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá)
__________
In Egypt, in August, 1913, 'Abdu'l-Bahá stated (Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb interpreting):  "When in America I repeatedly said that no one must believe one word said by another regarding any commands, teachings or statements made by me unless they can produce the same in writing over my signature."


XI:14, 23 November1920
page 243
"This is a mystery of the Kingdom of Abhá"
"There is a Power in this Cause, a Mysterious Power, far, far, far away from the ken of men and angels; that Invisible Power is the Cause of all these outward activities.  It moves the hearts.  It rends the mountains.  It administers the complicated affairs of the Cause.  It inspires the friends.  It dashes into a thousand pieces all the forces of opposition.  It creates new spiritual worlds.  This is a Mystery of the Kingdom of Abhá."
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb's diary.


XI:15, 12 December 1920
page 251
The Bahá'í Revelation
Address by Jinábi Fádil-i-Mázindarání, delivered at the Third Session of the Bahá'í Congress, New York City, 27 April 1920.
Manúchihr Abhá, Interpreter.
There is no doubt that there are two powers in the world, the power of spirituality and the power of materiality.  There is no doubt that the advancement of man is in the world of morality.  Man's honour depends upon his soul and upon his morality.  If man lacks spirituality and morality he is nothing but a mere animal and is in common with animals.  There is no doubt that man needs a teacher for the education of his morality and the education of his soul.  History proves to us that without a teacher for these two phases, morality and soul, and without education, man cannot be supreme.  The greatest morality in the world is love.  Love and morality are the foundations of this world.  Love in the world of humanity is the cause of its salvation.  Love and unity are the honour and progress of this world.  Love and unity are the foundations of its life; love and unity are the cause of man's entrance into the Kingdom of God; love and unity are the cause of eternal life.
All the Manifestations of God appeared in this world only that love and unity should prevail among mankind.  The prophets of the world had no other aim except love and unity amongst humankind.  When we look into the heavenly books we see the same thing, that all the aims have been this aim and nothing else.  We see that in those spiritual books and in those Divine books, every corruption is forbidden; we see only inimical passions have been prohibited in those Divine books, and they have united the people in love and harmony.  When we look into and consider the Divine books, we see all the aims of all the prophets have been to perfect man's morality and to establish love and unity among all mankind.  They have no other aims besides these.
When we look into the history of every religion, we see that in their own cycle and in their own time they established their aims and objectives.  You know that in their own time they did good work; that is to say, they established love and unity as far as it was possible in their own time.  In the time of Moses, as much as it was possible in that time, and when the time of Jesus came as much as it was possible in his time.  But by and by superstitions crept into those pure religions and caused dissensions, and some blind imitations made it so that the people shunned religion.  Today we see in every nation that some people run away from religion entirely.  No sooner do you say a word about religion than they run away from you and say, "We are not ready to hear anything about religion."
Now, let us see why they are shunning and turning away from religion.
page 252
These people see only the superstitions which are among the people but do not see the reality and the significance of the religions; they see only the misunderstandings.  They see only the blind imitations.  Religions are like mirrors which are covered with dust and their brilliance is entirely dull now.  The dust that has covered the mirrors is nothing but these blind imitations or superstitions.  It is because.  of these superstitions and ignorances, which have caused dissensions among the religions of the world, that they are inimical to each other, and hatred has arisen among them.  Great wars and bloodshed have been brought about by these same blind imitations.  But when we look to see the essential principles of all the religions we see that their aims have been one.  Jesus had the same aim as Moses and Abraham and the other prophets, and they had no other aim and no other purpose except love and unity among humankind.  All these differences and dissensions were brought about by the aforementioned superstitions and men's ignorance.  The primary principles are unchangeable, but, of course, the secondary principles and branches are changeable according to the exigencies of time.  We know that as time passes everything is changed; as you say nowadays, everything is changing.  The laws of commerce and of other transient things are changing with the exigencies of time.  The only differences that occur in religions is in the outer and secondary laws, not in the essential principles.  There is nothing important about those transient things, they change with the exigencies of time.  The point to be considered is the principles only.  The people of the world do not look at the principles and the important points but they adhere to the trifling things, so of course there is dissension among them.  These differences in religions have caused the very destruction of the whole world.  If a wise man peruses the situation of the world today, will he deny that in this time and cycle there is need of unity among religions?  Can all these differences and dissensions remain as they are?  How long should there be differences in the world, and when is the perfection of the world to come?
Bahá'u'lláh has dawned from the horizon of Persia, and has established laws for the unification of all religions, and he has made the world understand that the reality and the principles of all religions have been the same.  He has brought to light the foundation of all religions, and these principles have been published in his book.  They are the same things, but with new explanations which are very effective and influential, so that those commands renew the world of soul and the world of heart.  We see that with Divine power he is dispelling those differences.  This is what we see with our own eyes.  What can be seen with the eyes and felt with the heart cannot be denied.  If a mason claims he can build a beautiful building and he builds it right before our eyes, can that be denied?  Such a fact cannot be denied.  This is what Bahá'u'lláh claims.  He said his aim was to bring unity and harmony among humankind.  There is unity among people who come under his standard, and he is pointing out to the people the real qualities of religion and is dispelling superstition and ignorance.  This was his declaration and claim, and he attained to his aim.
We have come from the East.  Now, the East was the centre of fanaticism.  The people of the East were immersed in such superstition and fanaticism that they were very inimical to each other; they even considered each other as filthy and infidels, and they would not communicate with each other, would not
page 253
talk to each other.  They thought it praiseworthy to murder each other, and not only did they think this action praiseworthy but they thought if they murdered one of their friends they would be nearer to God!
There were many followers of this belief in Persia, that is, those who thought that if they should kill each other they would be nearer to God.  This was not according to the Holy Book at all.  The Holy Book invited the people to love and harmony, while all of this emanated from superstition and ignorance.  But since the manifestation of Bahá'u'lláh, people of different religions and different nations have entered under its banner, and they now manifest the utmost love and unity towards each other.
For instance, the Jews were very superstitious and very fanatical.  In the time of Christ they did not believe in Christ and they did not accept Christ, but now hundreds and hundreds of them have entered under this standard; and also the other older nations that did not believe in any of the new religions.  When you enter one of the Bahá'í meetings, you see men from different races and from different nations.  You cannot distinguish the Jew from those of other religions.  You see a large number of people with great harmony and love towards each other, whereas each was formerly under a separate religion.  This unity of religion has been established and brought about only by the Words of Bahá'u'lláh.
This is the greatest power that reveals itself in the human world.  This is the aim of all the Divine Manifestations; this is that which is prophesied in the Holy Book, that the "last" day will come and there will be perfect unity among the people; that the day will come when the "wolf" and the "lamb" will graze in the same pasture, and the day will come when all differences will be removed.  Now, we see that by this Revelation and this Manifestation all the differences are removed.  Can such a tangible case be denied?  Since the declaration of the Manifestation thousands and thousands of the Bahá'ís have been killed.  This tree has been watered by the martyrdom of hundreds and hundreds of people.  From the beginning of this Manifestation up to this present time, about fifty or sixty thousand have been murdered.  They were murdered by the ignorant-killed and tortured in all sorts of ways.  The history of this Cause is very long indeed.  Whatever happened or took place in former religions, and former Manifestations, appeared in this Manifestation also.  The holy aim of the Bahá'ís cannot be denied by anybody.  In this time, which is a luminous time, we see that it needs such a great Manifestation, and it needs the unity of the people.  Of course, it necessitates that all the secrets of the religious Books should appear; and this is essential that all the shining hearts from God should again be near to God.
Now, we can feel perfectly sure that if it were not for the Bahá'í Cause the whole world would be running away from religion; that is to say, people would see only superstitions of religion then and turn away.  This period necessitates a great Manifestation, more than any other period.  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh appeared to mankind and said:  "Ye are all the branches of one tree and the fruits of one tree; ye are all of one race; ye are all created by the same God."  Put aside all your blind imitations and adhere to the principles of religion and then you will all be united.  My hope is that we endeavour every day to spread this Cause as much as we can, because the progress of the world and the attraction of the attention of people to religion is not realized by any other way except this way.


XI:15, 12 December 1920
page 254
The investigation of truth
Address by Jinábi Fádil-i-Mázandarání, delivered at the Fourth Session of the Bahá'í Congress, New York City, 28 April 1920.
Manúchihr Abhá, Interpreter.
... We ask God for His assistance and confirmation, that He may guide us in His path, and that He may lead the whole of humanity in that path.  I see that this meeting is spiritual and I could not keep still.  I feel very much as if the spirit is waving all over this place.
There are plenty of meetings of different sorts and everywhere, for different purposes, reunions and dances are held in different places, but there are few meetings which are organized for the sake of God.  The Bahá'í reunions and assemblies are for this aim, that is to say, for the sake of God.  This meeting has no other intention except the investigation of truth and to discuss and speak about truth.  All the people have been waiting so long that I am sure that they have no other aim except the investigation of truth.  The investigation of truth is the first aim and the first principle that Bahá'u'lláh has commanded the people to do-it should be the aim of all the people of the world.  Bahá'u'lláh has told the people that every man should investigate truth, because man's opinion is divided into two kinds.  One belief and one opinion exists in man because of inheritance and blind imitation.  Most of his opinions and beliefs in the world are of this sort.  It is not necessary to mention it further and to take more time in explaining it because you know it already.  You know all the existent religions of the world are nothing but blind imitation or inheritance.  There is no doubt about it, and you know it.  When a father is a Christian, the son also becomes a Christian; if the parents are Jews, the son will become a Jew; if the father is a Zoroastrian, the son will become a Zoroastrian, and if he is a Hindu or a Buddhist or a Muslim, the son will accept the religion of his father.  We must not expect that the son of a Jew will be anything but a Jew.  They are trained in that religion and, of course, when they are grown up they have not been trained in any other religion than that.  They perpetuate their own beliefs and opinions in the hearts of their children, and they sow the seeds of animosity in the hearts of their children against other religions.  All the existing beliefs are no better than the ones mentioned.  These are blind imitations, and I am sure they are not the cause of man's salvation.  Belief in blind opinion is the cause of all the dissension in the world.  All these differences of religion have sprung from blind opinion.  This sort of religion which exists in the world is not praised by God, because they have believed in these opinions without any proof or demonstration.  All these beliefs are the sources of dissension and the root of all differences.
There is one sort of belief that has very few followers and that is the belief in the investigation of truth.  The unity of the Bahá'ís which has been brought about in the world is from this source; that is to say, they have investigated the truth and have found the truth.  There is no doubt that people would not give up their religion unless it were founded on valid proof; beliefs and opinions are something very dear and very precious to humankind, and they have some reason for changing their opinion or else they would not do it.  This proof is brought about by knowledge and investigation of the truth;
page 255
there is no doubt about that.  Now, as I said before, this meeting has assembled to investigate the truth.  I want every one of you, if you have any difficulty about the Cause, to come to the Bahá'í Centre and ask me and I will gladly tell you about it.  These meetings that you see, and such gatherings as this, they have all over the world.
This is the time of the Ridván feast of the Bahá'ís and Conventions are held by the Bahá'ís in different parts of the world.  At this time, Bahá'u'lláh was exiled from Baghdád at the instigation of the high priests and by the help and support of the governments of Turkey and Persia.  Two powerful governments like Turkey and Persia, with the influence of their high priests, leaders and governors, tried to exile Bahá'u'lláh.  What did they mean by this banishment?  They were not opposing Bahá'u'lláh personally, but they opposed his words and they were inimical to his teachings.  At this time of Ridván, Bahá'u'lláh declared his mission and called the people to perfect unity and to remove dissension; in such a time the banner of the standard of peace was uplifted.  At such a time this religion was started.  This was why all the people of Persia and Turkey arose against his teachings.  They thought by this opposition that they could eradicate his teachings and they would not spread over the world, but they did not know that some purposes and some intentions are supported by God's confirmation.
For instance, a man arranges according to his own ways, and everything outwardly is all right, but he never attains to his aim and objective.  He feels from the very beginning that he is not supported by God's confirmation.  He appeals to everything to attain to his objective, but he cannot attain it.  Some people arise and put into effect some sacred intention, some holy intention, and it is done.  By the outward appearance of things, I can tell from the beginning whether you are assisted by God or not, and whether you are supported by God's confirmation or not.  The Manifestations of God were assisted by the confirmations of God.  No means and no implements do they possess.  Everything and every outward appearance and everything was against them.  In spite of this opposition they put into effect their aims and their intentions.  Although they undertook to banish-although the Muslim priests and kings undertook to banish Bahá'u'lláh-they did not know that they were in reality assisting him in every possible way.  It was for his sake that all the glad tidings and the prophecies of the Holy Book were fulfilled.  It is written, it is prophesied in the Old Testament, that the greatest Manifestation would manifest himself, and would appear from the Holy Land.  You are well informed of the Holy Books and it is unnecessary to remind you of them.  The light of God would appear on the Mount of Carmel and 'Akká should be the place, the destination, the hope of the people, and the Holy Land should be the centre of the attraction of the whole world.  These prophecies were fulfilled by the enemies of Bahá'u'lláh.  Thus, every man who caused his banishment put into effect and fulfilled those promises and those prophecies.  That is why those who go to Haifa and 'Akká see the truth and fulfilment of those prophecies.  I have seen with my own eyes how Haifa and 'Akká are the centre of attraction of the people of the world:  how people from the east and west and north and south go to the presence of the Master.


XI:15, 12 December 1920
page 256
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
To his honour, Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb,-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of the Threshold of the Blessed Perfection!
The maid-servant of God, Mrs Hoagg, and the maid-servant of God, Miss Culver, arrived.  They brought your photograph with green turban and that, of your respected wife; likewise the photograph of his honour Fádil with white turban and luminous face.  It was conducive to great rejoicing.  His honour Fádil, in reality, is perfect in all the grades-in knowledge and virtue, in sincerity of intention, in beauty of character, in severance from aught else save God and attraction with the fragrances of God.  Truly I say, he is the
page 257
manifestation of this blessed verse:  "I do not ask ye any reward.  Verily my reward is with God, the Lord of the two worlds.  It is written:  'If for the sake of thy self-sacrifice thou desirest a compensation, the compensation which is given by His Holiness the Almighty is the best of all.'"
The plan of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was observed.  Importance lies in its building.  It is my hope that this foundation may be built.
Convey longing greeting to all the friends.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Received July 1920.


XI:15, 12 December 1920
page 257
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Roy C. Wilhelm
To his honour, Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, New York City,-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou my dear affectionate son!
Two letters from thee have arrived.  Exercise thou the utmost love and kindness towards Petrus Darakhshaní!  He should continue the work which he has already undertaken.
His honour Fádil is a revered person.  He has been growing for a long time in the Cause.  Next to his honour, Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl, he is the best informed of his contemporaries.  He has no aspiration save service to the Cause of God.  He is a scholar, he is appreciative and grateful to thee.
Thou hast written that the House of Spirituality of New York is splendidly confirmed and consequently the number of the friends is increasing.  This news imparted great joy.  My hope is that New York may become the centre of this great Cause:  the glad-tidings of the Kingdom of God may encompass (it); the banner of the oneness of the world of humanity may be raised, and the divine teachings may pitch their pavilion in that city.  In my trip to America I spent a long time in New York.  I went to Washington and returned to New York:  I went to Boston and returned to New York.  I went to Chicago and came back to New York.  I visited California and went back to New York.  From this it becomes evident that I feel the utmost attachment to New York.
Well, thou and all the friends should encourage the souls (people) to become firm in attachment to the Testament and Covenant, for the power of the Covenant brings together and makes them united and harmonious; otherwise every ambitious soul arises to bring about their separation, in order to draw a few souls around himself.  The souls who were crying in all the assemblies and meetings (of the friends), that everybody who did not adhere to the Covenant and Testament of God, was excommunicated, wicked, expelled from the threshold of the Blessed Beauty and was hopeless of the mercy of God, yielded then to ambition, sought for fame and arose to violate the Covenant.  Thou observest now how abject and miserable they have become.  In every age many such people appeared, but in the end they fell into manifest misery.
Thou observest that after His Holiness Christ,-May my soul be sacrificed for Him,-how many different sects appeared.  Read thou the book of his honour, Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl!  In the history of the Church this is written and, recorded.  Of them was the Patriarch of Alexandria who attempted to give false impressions.  One million and a half people became his adherents.  Even the Emperor of Constantinople (followed him).  He produced a great
page 258
disturbance in the nation of Christ.  But ultimately he was vanquished and thrown into most striking misery.  Now these people, whose number is small, it is already known what their end will be.
I hope that the friends will give the utmost importance to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  A cablegram from Mr Randall has lately been received, indicating that they will begin its construction.  Through this news I became immensely delighted.  The American friends are greatly endeared.  Therefore I desire that they may be confirmed in great achievements and become the factors of the establishment of the Kingdom of God.
All the people of the world are, as thou observest, in the sleep of negligence.  They have forgotten God altogether.  They are all busy in war and strife.  They are undergoing misery and destruction.  They are like unto loathsome worms trying to lodge in the depth of the ground, while a single flood of rain sweeps all their nest and lodging away.  Nevertheless, they do not come to their senses.  Where is the majesty of the Emperor of Russia!  Where is the might of the German Emperor!  Where is the greatness of the Emperor of Austria!  In a short time all these palaces were turned into ruins and all these pretentious edifices (empires) underwent destruction.  They left no fruit and no trace, save eternal ruin.
The souls who have been enlightened with the Light of the Kingdom, however, have founded eternal sovereignty.  They shine like unto the stars upon the horizon of everlasting glory.  The Apostles (of Christ) were fishers.  Consider thou to what a high station they did rise! and to what a great sovereignty they did attain; whose duration and permanence runs to eternity.  Mary Magdalene was a peasant woman.  She was without any name and fame or consequence, but her candle is in the assemblage of the world, lighted till eternity.
Upon thee be the glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, 9 August 1920, Mount Carmel, Palestine.


XI:15, 12 December 1920
page 258
Tablets to Bahá'ís in America received in 1919 and 1920
To the children of the Kingdom
To the children of the Kingdom-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-care of the daughter of the Kingdom, Bahá'íyyih Randall-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye children of the Kingdom!
Praise ye God that in the days of childhood ye have entered the divine kingdom and have been encompassed by the bounty and favour of God.  At a time when ye were young He has chosen and selected ye and has made ye intimates with the mysteries, while the mature and full-grown have been deprived.  This is to be attributed only to the bounty of God.  Praise ye God therefore and say:
"O Thou compassionate Lord!  O Lord of Hosts!  Praise be unto Thee, that thou hast preferred these young children to the full-grown and the matured, hast endowed them with Thy special bounty, hast guided them, hast bestowed upon them Thy light and hast given them spirituality.  Confirm us that when we attain maturity we may be enabled to serve Thy Kingdom, may train the souls, may become ignited candles and may glitter like unto stars.  Thou art the Giver, the Bestower and the Kind!"
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 26 November 1919.
page 259
Mr and Mrs Deuth
To their honours, Mr and Mrs Deuth-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
-care of his honour, Mr Albert Vail Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two servants of the Kingdom of God!
His honour, Mr Vail, has arrived and with an eloquent tongue and a brilliant language has been praising you very highly; that these two respected souls are indeed two truthful servants of the Word of God and are day and night roaring and surging like unto the sea.  They have no purpose save the promulgation of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and seek nothing save the guidance of souls.  They have established a magazine55 which promotes the Bahá'í ideals, which declares the oneness of mankind, which sets forth the inner meanings and the realities of things, which expounds the mysteries of God and the words of which glitter like unto pearls.  This figure is an oriental figure by which eloquent and significant words are compared to pearls.  But these pearls are of two kinds, one is the versified language and that is called poetry and the other is the ordinary language called prose.  Now I pray to God that ye may both in prose as well as poetry set forth glittering gems and may be so confirmed that all your publications may be favourable to every sound intellect and suitable to all praiseworthy characters, and that no one will be able to criticize them or make the slightest objections.
In the utmost supplication, I beseech divine providence that He may bestow His favours upon you in this world and in the next.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Supplication
O God!  Make this magazine a mirror of Truth that therein the divine significances may be reflected, the mysteries of the Kingdom may be revealed, and that it may appear effulgent and resplendent to the eyes of men.  Thou art the promulgator of publications that serve the world of humanity!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 25 November 1919.
Charles Mason Remey
To his honour, Mr Charles Mason Remey-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou herald of the Covenant!
Thy letters have been received and an answer has been written.  Verily, thou art firm in the Covenant, art self-sacrificing, art the son of the Kingdom and dost deserve the confirmations of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Consequently, 'Abdu'l-Bahá is highly pleased with thee and begs for thee from His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh limitless bounties.  As a result of this glad-tiding fly on the wings of joy and raise thou the melody:  "Happy am I, blessed am I!"
Mr and Mrs Deuth are, in the sight of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, favoured and esteemed.  Verily, they are engaged in service.  Day and night they strive that they may awaken the souls, they write articles in a moderate tone, they do not rend the veils asunder, and thus they are praised and esteemed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Convey on my behalf to Richard Mayer respectful greeting.  I supplicate for this enlightened soul the bounty of the Merciful.
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!  If possible, convey to thy parents my greeting and my respect and give them this message:  "Do not be disturbed.  All is in the hands of God, and He is
page 260
the kind Father.  Rest assured in His bounty and assistance."
The friends in Boston are indeed arising in service.  I am pleased with them, am glad of their activities and ever thinking of them and beg for them all from the bounties of God's assistance and confirmation.  Their names are preserved and recorded in the Book of the lordly ones in the Abhá Kingdom.  They may rest assured in the bounty of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, that confirmations shall uninterruptedly descend upon them.
I have been greatly affected by the death of Mr Sandy Kinney.  What a lovely child he was.  On my behalf say to Mr and Mrs Kinney:  "Do not grieve, and do not lament.  That tender and lovely shrub has been transferred from this world to the rose-garden of the Kingdom and that longing dove has flown to the divine nest.  That candle has been extinguished in this nether world that it may be rekindled in the Supreme Concourse.  Ye shall assuredly meet him face to face in the world of mysteries at the assemblage of Light."
At present, wisdom does not permit that the teachers should apply to the government for half-rate fares or should have the property of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár exempt from government taxes.  Wisdom does not permit that at present.  Its time will come.
Concerning thy travel, if during the spring season thou goest to Germany and thence proceed to the Holy Land it will be highly advisable.  Thou art permitted.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 24 December 1919.
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
To his honour Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou wanderer over mountain and desert in the Path of the kind Beloved!
Thy letter, after thy return from California to New York, was received.  Praise be to God, that in accord with the promise of 'Abdu'l-Bahá thou didst behold the bestowal and favour of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh manifest and clear in all the states of America!  This is the fulfilment of what I have said:  Every soul who in this day is firm in the Covenant will become the brilliant sign of the Kingdom of Effulgence.  Do thou move and live in accord with the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá; then thou wilt observe that all the doors are open, all the paths straightened, help and assistance becoming one's companion and the cohorts of confirmation descending uninterruptedly.  Today whosoever is the servant of the Kingdom of Abhá will be established upon the throne of everlasting sovereignty.  Praise be to God, that thou didst observe with thine own eyes and listened with thine own ears that today the power of the Covenant is the pulsating artery in the body of the world.  Whosoever becomes one of the people of divine association, he is the candle of splendour and whosoever is an associate of the people of sedition he is established and has his dwelling in the lowest abyss of hell.
In the middle of nights, like 'Abdu'l-Bahá, supplicate at the Threshold of the Blessed Perfection and cry and lament:  "O Thou kind God!  I am a weak ant, bestow upon me the sovereignty of Solomon!  I am an ephemeral atom, suffer me to appear in the flow of the rays of the Sun of Reality!  I am a drop, bestow upon me the waves of the Most Great Sea!  I am a mosquito, make me the eagle of the Apex of Glory.  I am lowly, endear me in Thy Kingdom!  I am unknown and signless, grant me the visible token of confirmation!"
The pilgrims returning from this land, God willing, from now on will
page 261
become the cause of union and harmony.
The Bahá'í Library in New York, truly I say is engaged in service and Mr and Mrs Deuth are in reality self-sacrificing and are the object of the favour of 'Abdu'l-Bahá; but the believers must as much as possible assist this library and the magazine Reality.  Mr and Mrs Deuth are unable to bear all the expenses.
Praise be to God, that Shahnáz (Mrs Waite) is full of song and melody and like unto the flute-player is singing the notes of the divine musician.
It is hoped that ere long the Convention this year will be inaugurated in a
page 262
befitting and behoving manner and the maid-servant of God, Mrs Maxwell, Mr Randall, Mr Mills, Mrs Marjorie Morton and Mrs Zoraya Chamberlain have undoubtedly become confirmed in rendering great services.
Doctor Grant and Rev. Guthrie unquestionably have delivered detailed speeches.  These two revered souls, truly I say, are worthy of respect and honour.  I pray in their behalf that they may become assisted to render services to the Kingdom of God; each one of them may walk in the footsteps of the Apostles and become the lighted candles in the assemblage of Reality.  In short, I hope that
page 263
in this Convention the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár may obtain a new importance.  Undoubtedly your wedding is likewise solemnized.  It is divine and blessed.  I have given recommendations regarding your affairs to some of the pilgrims.  It is assured that you will spend your life with joy and composure.
His Excellency, the ideal sage, Fádil-i-Mazandarani, is the essence of humility and submission.  God willing, with Manúchihr Khán, he has reached the United States under the protection of the Almighty.  This respected soul is evanescent in the Cause of the Blessed Perfection.  He is wise, well informed
page 264
and a thinker.  There is no doubt that he will become the cause of the exhilaration, rejoicing and the guidance of others.  You must exercise toward him the utmost respect and consideration, and placing your hands in each other's, become ye engaged in the promotion of the Word of God.
Convey on my behalf, my love and affection to the favoured maid-servant of God, thy respected wife and her mother.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 28 June 1920, New York City.


XI:16, 31 December 1920
page 267
'Abdu'l-Bahá on Mt. Carmel
Notes by Mabel Paine, of Urbana, Illinois, on her visit to Haifa, Palestine, with a party of pilgrims, September, 1920.
The experience of being in Haifa and meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá is so great that it cannot be contained in the narrow bounds of the few days spent there.  After the pilgrimage is over new beauties are revealed, new strength is derived.  Every scene, event, and circumstance partakes of the eternal world and so continues to grow and develop in our hearts.  The sojourn there is like being on a spiritual mountain top where broader, more spiritual views are spread before us.  Or better, it is like having the water of life flow with its penetrating, life-giving, cleansing power into every last part of one's heart and life.
In some place, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said that everything in the outer material world is a sign, symbol or counterpart of a reality in the spiritual world.  This truth one realizes intensely at Haifa.  The physical surroundings there are outer expressions of the spiritual life.  The Psalmist wrote "Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion."  And this description may now be applied to Mount Carmel.  Rugged mountain, blue sea, wide plain, all glowing in brilliant sunshine, combine to make a scene of great beauty, more beautiful complete and varied, it seems to many, than any other scene.  So, one learns while at Haifa, is the spiritual life more beautiful than any other life.
'Abdu'l-Bahá himself is the Living Word, the very embodiment of the spiritual life.  His whole bearing, his every attitude of body and expression of face mirror forth spiritual truth.  How precious are the mental pictures of 'Abdu'l-Bahá which remain with the returned pilgrim!  I see him standing a little apart from the rest and in his bearing is absolute independence and majesty.  It is evident that he can stand alone against the whole world.  It comes to me that this great power and independence of aught save God is with him because he is so entirely selfless.  It is a part of his station, the wonderful station of servitude.
Again I see him, I can't tell when, but it is in the day time, so that I see his face most clearly.  He is walking.  The head is a little bent.  The eyes are full of that wonderful compassion which all spiritual artists have tried to portray in paintings of great spiritual beings.  There is a great freshness and youth in those eyes, the freshness of early dawn, the purity of the child, a look of wonder as of one sojourning in a strange and foreign world.  Such a look may have been in Christ's eyes when he said to his disciples, "How is it that you have so little faith?"  But a look too of great compassion, such compassion as must have existed from the beginning which hath no beginning and which will endure to the end which hath no end.  Then what compelling, active power in those eyes when sometimes they flash a summons from this world to the other!
__________
What a blessing comes to the pilgrim to Haifa from being able to watch the
page 268
daily life which is the active counterpart of these heavenly pictures!  The following incident related by M. 'Azízu'lláh Khán Bahádur illustrates the unfailing kindness which 'Abdu'l-Bahá showers so freely on every one with whom he comes in contact.  M. 'Azízu'lláh spoke in some such way as this:
"One morning I was in Haifa with the Master.  We entered a store.  Here we found a group of people and among them a German missionary, a resident of Haifa.  At first this man was talking in such a way as to display his knowledge of classical Arabic literature.  Then the subject of his conversation changed.  He spoke of his personal affairs.  He was no longer receiving remittances from the missionary board in Germany.  This was during the war.  He was in need of money.  When the Master heard the man speak of his need, he promptly gave him a generous sum of money."
Mírzá 'Azízu'lláh continued:  "All the time I was feeling critical of the Master and at the same time blaming myself for feeling critical.  This missionary I knew had no love for the Master.  He had opposed the Master and would oppose him again.  'Still,' I said to myself, 'if that is not the Master, I don't know who is.'"
How often while in Haifa were we sharply confronted with this contrast between the human and divine way of thinking!  "My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord.  For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts."  One morning some pilgrims were sitting in a small room on the ground floor of the Master's house.  One of the pilgrims, a Muslim, was pouring over the pages of the Bible.  He had recently become a Bahá'í and since that time could not read the Bible enough.  Soon Dr Lutfu'lláh Hakím entered.  He brought a message from the Master to the Muslim pilgrim.  It directed him to go to the hospital.  He had not been well for several days and the Master, like a kind father, was watching over him and advising him for his best welfare.  But the pilgrim answered that he had not seen the Master for three days and that he would not go to the hospital until he had again seen the Master.  In the mind of one of the pilgrims who was watching this little scene, sprang up a feeling of disapproval, a feeling a little critical and consequently a little hostile to this Oriental brother.  (Why was he not obeying 'Abdu'l-Bahá?)  But we were soon to see the Divine way of regarding the man.  Dr Lutfu'lláh carried the man's message to the Master and returned immediately with directions to the man to step outside.  He did so, the rest of us following.  We went by the gravel path around to the front of the house.  Soon 'Abdu'l-Bahá appeared on the porch just above us.  He looked down on the sick man with laughing kindly eyes and his beautiful musical voice fairly rippled with laughter as he again advised him to go to the hospital.  The man's face beamed with pleasure and he went off to the hospital satisfied.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's answer to a question regarding Church attendance
It is well to worship in any place where the thought is turned to God.  Whether the place is home, church, or mosque, the object is to turn to God.  But if there is a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár it is better to worship there.  In the other worshipping places the hearts are not engaged in worshipping God.  They are turned to the world.  Therefore in those places the breaths of the Merciful are not inhaled.  But if there is no Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, there is no harm in going to other worshipping places.
When I was in America I used to go to churches to speak.  When I entered they were engaged in worshipping.  I also used to stand up and turn to the Kingdom of God.  After they had fin-
page 269
ished their prayer I used to give the Divine Glad Tidings.  I used to give the proofs and evidences of God.  I gave the teachings of the Blessed Beauty.  All listened.  There was no opposition.  In truth I turned to God when I entered the churches.  When they were in the congregation of God and were singing songs I enjoyed it.  When they were shouting, "My God, my God!"  I was happy.
When His Holiness Christ gathered his disciples together on that last night, it was not in a church, it was in a room.  On that night they had the Last Supper.  It was in a room.  The idea is that the heart should be attracted, the spirit filled with Divine Glad Tidings and the soul turned to God.  This is the object.  Other things are secondary.
Tuesday, 7 September, Western Pilgrim House Haifa, after breakfast
Question:  "Just before the Master came in we were talking about how to train children to be thoughtful of others and unselfish.  Will the Master speak to us on this subject?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The body of man is from the world of nature.  His body is akin to that of the animal.  He has animal tendencies.  But the Divine power in him is great.  His spirit is pure, sanctified and heavenly.  His body is satanic.  If his spiritual qualities overcome his animal qualities he becomes illumined, full of activities and good qualities.  But if the animal qualities overcome the spiritual, the spiritual will be entirely extinguished.  All the qualities will be animalistic.  In such a state the love of self is found; man is immersed in passion; darkness succeeds darkness.  Man becomes negligent of God.  No sign of his spirituality remains.  This is why His Holiness Christ says that we must be born again.  When man is born from the womb of the mother he is freed from material darkness.  In the same way he must be born from the world of nature so that he may become free from the darkness of the world of nature.  This is the second birth.  Man must always strive to have his spirit overcome his body.  When his spirit overcomes his body, the second birth takes place and he becomes freed from imperfections.  He becomes filled with virtues.  He becomes nearer the Divine and follows the Divine teachings.  He becomes like a lighted candle.  This is the reality of the subject.  But when he is immersed in the world of nature he is like an animal, a fierce animal.  He displays all the worst qualities."
Sunday afternoon, 5 September Mt. Carmel, near the Tomb of the Báb
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Do you like it here?  Do you like the view here?"
Miss Coy:  "Yes.  It is most beautiful."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The truth is that this place has a spiritual atmosphere.  There are many beautiful views, but they have no spiritual atmosphere.  All the prophets have been on Mt. Carmel, but in the mountains of Lebanon there were no prophets.  It is strange that all the world is one, yet this part has become especially blessed.  Palestine has been mentioned by God continually.  But Sumal, Lebanon, and Damascus have never been mentioned.  There was a magnificent temple of the sun at Baalbek.  Its ruins still exist.  It is written in the Qur'án:  "God gives His bounty and favour to whomsoever He willeth."  So it is with this land.
"The heart is attracted here.  His Holiness Elijah dwelt in a cave below this spot.  At that time all the children of Israel were opposed to the religion of God.  They were engaged in their own passions and pursuits.  Only their name indicated that they were the people of His Holiness Moses.  If His Holiness Moses had come among them at that time he would not have recognized them.  He would have said:  'I do not consider them as my own, for they have entirely forsaken the religion of God.  They are
page 270
deprived of the law of God.  There is no light at all remaining in them.  They are like a Negro servant whose name is Diamond.  His name is Diamond but he is a black servant.  Such was their condition.
"Then His Holiness Elijah educated certain souls in this cave.  He educated pure and sincere souls as they ought to be and sent them among the children of Israel.  They began to teach and call the children of Israel back to God.  They called them back again to the law of God.  His Holiness Elijah gathered all their chief men together and brought them to the top of this mountain.  There were three hundred and sixty of these chief men.  But however much he taught and counselled them he obtained no result.  He tried to guide them, but it was no use.  For several years he worked to educate them.  At the end no result was apparent.  He realized that they would corrupt other souls.  Then he had these three hundred and sixty men put to death.  Then the rest of the children of Israel returned to their original spiritual morals and behaviour.  Then they regained their spiritual life.  The everlasting glory again became apparent.  They overcame the neighbouring tribes.  They rebuilt the Holy Temple.  The laws of God were put into effect.
"Then when His Holiness Elijah had finished his work he left it and went away.  He retired.  They thought he had ascended to Heaven.  But no, having accomplished his work, he retired.  He had no attachment to the world.  When his object was accomplished he retired from the world.  When he realized that his work was done he devoted himself to his own development.
"The sincerity of a pure person is apparent in his deeds and activities.  His Holiness Elijah tried very much and laboured very hard.  Then when the way became smooth and the time of comfort and ease came he went away.  He had no attachment to this world.  All the thoughts of man, every trace which he leaves behind him must be heavenly.  He must have no attachment to this world.  This world is like the waves of the sea.  It does not last.  The wise person does not attach his heart to waves."
Sunday, 5 September, at the supper table in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's house
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I hope the health of the friends is good.  Today you went to visit the Shrine of the Báb.  Are you happy?
"His Holiness Christ was once eating grapes.  He said, 'I will not eat grapes again until I eat them anew with you in the Kingdom.'  But the grapes of the Kingdom are not like these grapes (referring to the grapes on the table).  In the Kingdom there are no grapes like these.  Now also, I say to you all.  We will eat together of the Divine Bounty, that is Divine food, God willing, in the Kingdom.  Its taste is everlasting.  Its strength and power is everlasting.  God willing, we will eat together there of that heavenly food."
Mabel Paine.


XI:16, 31 December 1920
page 272
Two important Tablets to the Bahá'ís of America, just received
To the friends of God-America-Unto them be the glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS THE MOST GLORIOUS!
O ye friends of God!
The world is still filled with tribulations and agitation, and the nations of the world are in fact in competition, strife and war with one another.  In some countries there is also open warfare, and strife.  The world of humanity is sick and unawakened and the physicians of morality are in conflict more than all other people:  they have not yet discovered the cause of the sickness (of world), nay rather, they are utterly ignorant.  In reality the physicians themselves are sicker, weaker and more avaricious than all.  In spite of this, all the nations of the world are neglecting and disregarding the fact that, except the Divine Physician, who is well aware of the constitution of the world of humanity, no one can remedy these diseases and bestow the most effective antidote.  Various diseases have so permeated the body of the world that the sick, together with the nurse and the physician, have become utterly helpless and are suffering great calamities.
Today the only community which has no prejudice and is not in conflict with any other community, and besides this wishes the good health, ease, comfort and harmony of the world of humanity, is this oppressed (Bahá'í) community.  Notwithstanding this the peoples of the Orient are practicing the utmost oppression towards this persecuted community.  In Persia every day they create some new disturbances and take recourse in false charges as a new
page 273
pretext:  the chiefs of the old religion instigate the masses in general to attack and wipe out all these persecuted souls.
Then pray ye that the friends in the Orient may remain protected and guarded.  The firm and steadfast friends in the Orient in spite of this (persecution) are waving like unto the sea, and their utmost aspiration is to attain to the most great martyrdom.  They have attained to complete severance, enkindlement and sincerity and are ready to ascend to the Kingdom of God.  Verily, verily they are self-sacrificing and life-giving!
Formerly in Persia divorce was very easily obtained.  Among the people of the old nation (Islám) a trifling matter would cause divorce.  However, as the light of the Kingdom shone forth souls were quickened by the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh, then they utterly abstained from divorce.  In Persia now divorce does not take place among the friends (Bahá'ís) unless something unbearable occurs which makes harmony impossible.  Under these rare circumstances some cases of divorce take place.
Now the friends in America must live and conduct themselves in this way.  They must strictly refrain from divorce unless something arises which compels them to separate because of their aversion for each other, then with the knowledge of the House of Spirituality they may decide to separate.  They must then be patient and wait a year.  If during this year harmony is not re-established between them then their divorce may be realized.
As soon as a slight friction or displeasure of the heart appears between the husband and wife, the husband should not think of union with some other woman; or, God forbid, the wife should also think of another husband!  This is contrary to heavenly purity and real chastity.  The friends of God must live and conduct themselves, exhibit excellence of character and refinement, in such a way as to make others astonished.  The love between husband and wife should not be purely physical, nay rather it must be spiritual and heavenly.  These two souls should be considered as one soul.  How difficult it is to divide one single soul!  Certainly there will appear great difficulties!
In short the foundation of the Kingdom of God is based upon harmony, love, oneness, relationship, union and not upon differences:  especially between the husband and the wife.  If one of these two becomes the cause of divorce, that one will unquestionably fall into great difficulties, shall become the victim of formidable calamities and shall experience deep remorse.
Unto you be the glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 12 November 1920.
__________
To the friends of God, America.
HE IS THE MOST GLORIOUS!
O ye friends of God!
The foundation of the Kingdom of God is laid upon justice, fairness, mercy, sympathy and kindness to every soul.  Then strive ye with heart and soul to practice love and kindness to the world of humanity at large, except to those souls who are selfish and insincere.  It is not advisable to show kindness to a person who is a tyrant, a traitor or a thief because kindness encourages him to become worse and does not awaken him.  The more kindness you show to a liar the more he is apt to lie, for he thinks that you know not while you do know but extreme kindness keeps you from revealing your knowledge.
page 274
Then, O ye friends of God!  Ye must not only have kind and merciful feelings for mankind, but ye should also exercise the utmost kindness towards every living creature.  The physical sensibilities and instincts are common to animal and man.  Man is, however, negligent of this reality and imagines that sensibility is peculiar to mankind, therefore he practices cruelty to the animal.  In reality what difference is there in physical sensations!  Sensibility is the same whether you harm man or animal; there is no difference.  Nay rather, cruelty to the animal is more painful because man has a tongue and he sighs, complains and groans when he receives an injury and complains to the government and the government protects him from cruelty, but the poor animal cannot speak, it can neither show its suffering nor is it able to appeal to the government.  If it is harmed a thousand times by man it is not able to defend itself in words nor can it seek justice or retaliate.  Therefore one must be very considerate towards animals and show greater kindness to them than to man.  Educate the children in their infancy in such a way that they may become exceedingly kind and merciful to the animals.  If an animal is sick they should endeavour to cure it; if it is hungry they should feed it; if it is thirsty, they should satisfy its thirst; if it is tired they should give it rest.
Man is generally sinful and the animal is innocent; unquestionably one must be more kind and merciful to the innocent.  The harmful animals, such as the bloodthirsty wolf, the poisonous snake and other injurious animals are excepted, because mercy towards these is cruelty to man, and other animals.  For instance, if you show kindness to a wolf this becomes a tyranny to the sheep, for it (the wolf) may destroy an entire flock of sheep.  If you give the opportunity to a mad dog it may be the cause of the destruction of a thousand animals and men.  Therefore, sympathy to the ferocious animal is cruelty to the peaceful animal, so they (ferocious animals) should be done away with.  To the blessed animals, however, the utmost kindness should be exercised:  the more the better it will be.  This sympathy and kindness is one of the fundamental principles of the divine kingdom.  Ye should pay great attention to this question.
Unto ye be the glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 12 November 1920.


XI:16, 31 December 1920
page 275
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mr Hall
Through Áqá Mírzá Lutfu'lláh-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-to his honour Mr Hall, Manchester, England.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art attracted to the Word of God and herald of the Kingdom of God!
Two letters have been received from you.  Their contents produced excessive joy, for they were indicative of this, that thou hast arisen in Manchester with a firm purpose, a superior power and a peaceful intention, and desiring to form a luminous meeting so that the friends may gather together.  The manna which came from heaven for the disciples, was neither cress, onion, lentil, garlic nor leek.  It was bounty and knowledge; it was faith and assurance; it was love and attraction; it was attachment and enkindlement by the fire of the love of God.  These spiritual foods were present upon that table.  As the disciples ate from these bounties of His Holiness Christ, they became filled with the love of Christ; they hastened to all parts of the world and heralded the Kingdom of God.  My hope, from the unlimited grace, is that that gathering may also eat from this manna and bounties.
Convey this message on my behalf to Mr and Mrs Chessel:  "O ye two birds of the gardens of the Kingdom, make a nest and dwelling like unto birds upon the Tree of Life, which is the heavenly teachings, and raise in a variety of tunes, melodious songs in the gardens of the Kingdom."
Convey longing greetings to Mr Joseph.  Say:  "As the Joseph of Egypt possessed real beauty and knowledge, he was in great demand in the Egyptian market.  Although he was a stranger and abject, yet, as he had this splendour, he became then the beloved of the divine Egypt:  attained eternal glory, and was addressed by his brothers, 'Verily, God hath given thee precedence over us.'  Now thou bearest the same name.  Strive in the path of the Kingdom so that thou mayest be addressed by all the friends with such a suitable address."
Convey on my behalf the utmost respect to Mr and Mrs Craven, and say:
"O ye two faithful souls!  If ye announce the advent of the Kingdom and become the exhibition of divine happiness and heavenly exaltation, no doubt you will become two luminous candles and loved souls in that gathering."
Convey to Mr and Mrs Birch my profound Abhá greeting and say:  "This is the century of Lights, and the age of the unfurling of the mysteries.  All the existing beings are in growth and progress, and the realities of things sing the songs of praise and glorification to the Lord of Hosts, because the Sun of Reality hath shone in this century at the zenith, and energized all existence.  This is why you observe every day some new discovery and superb lights appear on the stage of visibility."
Upon thee and upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Lutfu'lláh S. Hakím, Haifa, Palestine, 12 February 1920.


XI:16, 31 December 1920
page 276
Tablets to Bahá'ís in America received in 1919 and 1920
August Rudd
To his honour, Mr August Rudd-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou son of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Thy desire is to return to Sweden, thy home.  In the country of Sweden the call of God is not yet raised.  God willing, thou mayst be confirmed to raise the divine call in that country and be the cause of guidance unto a large multitude.  Let not this statement look strange to thee, because the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá are powerful.  They make the feeble strong, and give feathers and wings to the featherless bird.
The maid-servant of God, Miss Knobloch, went from America to Germany.  Of course thou hast heard how she stirred Germany and consequently how many souls were guided!  Now I supplicate to God that thou mayst be more (than she) confirmed, so that that dark country of the world of nature may be illumined with the heavenly luminosity.  Feel assured that confirmation will reach thee.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa.
Ferdinand Peterson
To his honour Mr Ferdinand Peterson, Racine, Wisconsin-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of the Divine Threshold!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hadst written that this year thou hast attended the Convention, hast been present at that illumined assemblage, hast heard those merciful addresses, hast secured a fresh spirit and hast increased in faith, assurance and firmness in the Covenant.  Appreciate the value of this lordly bounty and thank God that thou art living in the dispensation of the Covenant, and art attracted to the Sun of the Reality of the Abhá Beauty-May my life be a sacrifice to His friends!
Thou hadst written concerning the piece of land which thou desirest to sell and consecrate its price to the Cause of God.  At present do not hurry, and let it remain in your hands.
On behalf of the friends in Racine I supplicate and entreat at the Divine Threshold, and beg for them a new outpouring of the Spirit, so that they may be stirred and quickened, may be animated and enlivened, may promulgate the Divine teachings, strive for the oneness of the world of humanity, and serve the principle of universal peace.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Bahjí, 'Akká, Palestine, 20 July 1919.
Mrs Waite
To the attracted maid-servant of God, Mrs Shahnáz Waite-Upon her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou sweet singing bird!
The new song56 has been received.  Verily, verily art thou raising sweet melodies in the Rose-garden of the love of God.  The vibration of this melody will, forever, give pleasure to the ears of the children of the Kingdom.
Upon thee be the Glory of God!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, 15 August 1920, Haifa, Palestine.
page 277
William F. Kyle
To his honour, William F. Kyle; Red Wing, Minnesota-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  On thy behalf I prayed to God and supplicated to the Kingdom of God that thou mayest be detached from this world, may become self-effaced and may be thinking of the everlasting Kingdom.  The foundation of this world is not secure and is of no consequence.  One should devote his time to it as much as it is necessary
page 278
and the rest of his time he should consecrate to the Kingdom of God, so that eternal illumination may be secured and everlasting existence may be attained.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 'Akká, Palestine, 25 July 1919.


XI:17, 19 January 1921
page 282
Tablet to Fanny Knobloch
To the maid-servant of God, Fanny Knobloch, South Africa, the sister of Alma Knobloch, Germany-Upon her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear maid-servant of God!
Thy letter has been received.  Verily, thy sister has lighted a lamp in Germany.  God willing, thou wilt be to a larger extent confirmed.  Thou wilt kindle a luminous lamp.  It may be the Government of those regions will check thee.  Thou shouldst say:
"I am a Bahá'í and am a friend to all religions and nations.  I consider all to be of one race and count them as my relatives.  I have divine love and not racial and sectarian love.  According to the explicit written Command of Bahá'u'lláh, I do not pronounce a word pertaining to politics, because we are forbidden to interfere in political affairs.  We are concerned with affairs which are heavenly.  We are servants unto the world of morality.  We consider that religious, racial, political and national prejudices are destructive to the world of humanity.  We believe that the whole of the surface of the earth constitutes one home and all mankind form one family.  With all we associate in the utmost sincerity and kindness."
Upon thee be the Glory of Abhá!
[Signed] 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 10 August 1920.


XI:17, 19 January 1921
page 283
His story
What an Oriental said to an Occidental.
Arthur S. Agnew
One evening in Cairo two gentlemen called upon us at the hotel where we were stopping.  They were friends of our interpreter.  Both were tall and straight, dressed in long, flowing, spotless robes, and would have been received as men of distinction in any gathering.  One of them was a man of the desert and in our rooms at the hotel he seemed as far away from contact with worldly things as if he were out under the stars alone with his God.  The vitalized air of the desert seemed to float around and exhale from him.  After enjoying a very pleasant visit we noticed he was having quite a lengthy conversation with the interpreter, and as the words of his discourse began to come to us through the interpreter we found ourselves listening to a most profound discourse.  Had we known what was coming we would have taken notes from the beginning, so great was the impression made upon us all.  As it was, the words were ended, they had bidden us adieu and were gone before we realized it.
That was many years ago and now it seems fit that this thought should be recorded.  But I regret that I shall have to express it in my own way, for I cannot remember his illustrations nor ever hope to produce anything like the wonderful words he used; all I can remember is the great idea he so beautifully set forth.
Before attempting to reproduce his argument, I wish to bear tribute to the wonderful personality of this man of the desert, the winds that cheered him seemed to blow over the desert of self-forgetfulness of his heart and its luminous stars seemed mirrored in his eyes, while his whole being seemed warmed with the spirit of severance from all things save God.
Consider first that little animal or insect whose life consists of less than a day (ephemeral)-of which the morning sun witnesses the birth and the entire life is consummated before the evening sun sets beneath the horizon.  If it were an intelligent thinking creature it would assume the world to be eternally bathed in sunlight.
Consider next the annual plants of our gardens.  Their life begins with the warm days of spring and under the impelling force of the summer sunlight they burst into bloom and in the chill days of autumn fold their leaves about them and close up their existence.  If they were intelligent thinking creatures they would know the sun not only shines in the daytime but drops below the horizon at night to furnish a period of sleep, rest and refreshment, only to arise again on the following day a fiery orb to demand of them new exertion.
Now consider the shrubs and trees which survive the winter and which make a greater growth each year.  If they were intelligent thinking creatures they would know that not only day follows night and night follows day, but that another action of the earth and sun caused the sun to rise from a new point
page 284
on the horizon each day, producing the seasons, and that this underlying action of the seasons does not in any way interfere or prevent the sun rising each morning and setting each evening.  They would know that here were two apparently independent actions, the one causing the days and nights and the other causing the seasons of the year.  These two actions, one complete in twenty-four hours and the other complete in 365 days, operate independently of each other but in perfect accord, the one like the waves on the surface of the ocean, the other like the great tide.
Now let us consider human life.  It passes through babyhood, childhood, youth, manhood, middle age and old age.  Each life is lived moment by moment; each thought, each decision, is of only a moment's duration, for time moves on imperceptibly in a way impossible to measure; yet the higher the intelligence, and the greater and more important the life, the greater the underlying purpose which moves steadily on from the moment of birth to that of death.
Without using further illustrations, if you examine everything you will find in it the momentary action and underneath the great design, the wave on the surface and the great tidal movement, the thought of the moment and the great underlying purpose.
Man's greatest endeavour is to find his perfect relationship with himself, his family, his neighbours, his country and his God.  Only through religion is he able to do this, for without it he cannot find the balance between the personal and the universal.  What is universal to man is personal to the neighbourhood.  What is universal to the neighbourhood is personal to the nation.  That is, to make a united nation each neighbourhood must set aside its own personal wishes in part to become a unit of the government, and each man must set aside his own personal wishes in part and look at things in a universal way to have a good neighbourhood.  Religion furnishes this perfect balance between the personal demands and the universal demands, because, when man sets aside his own idea of God and accepts the idea of God as set forth by the Manifestations of God, he finds unity in idea, and among men the proper appreciation of values becomes realized.
Now let us consider the religions and see if we find in them the solution of the needs of the hour and also the great underlying purpose as we find throughout nature.
The Holy Land has been the centre of religious exposition from the time of our father Abraham.  The Mountain of Carmel has seen the manifestation of the will of God to men from Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad and Bahá'u'lláh.  Abraham came from Ur of the Chaldees, he journeyed up the Mesopotamian valley, through the fertile crescent at the north of the Arabian Desert till he came to the Holy Land.  He met the needs of the hour by setting up a patriarchal form of government and left the promise that sometime all men would become as brothers and that this Covenant God made with him would become established throughout the world.
To this land came Moses from Egypt and he met the needs of the hour by establishing the principle of law, and Moses and the prophets promised a future time when peace should reign supreme, when men would beat their spears into ploughshares and not learn war any more.
To this land also came Jesus, to a land sanctified by the feet of the Holy ones before him, to a land flowing with the milk and honey of spiritual endowment.  He taught the needs of the hour in the law of love and forgiveness, and he established the church or sanctuary as a place to keep alive this sacred flame of love lest the feet of the fierce ones of the world stamp it out.  It was like the sweet childhood of religion, the manifestation of the Son of God.
And to this land came also Muhammad.  He taught the wild tribes of the
page 285
desert, and he met the needs of the day in his strong denunciation of error and wrong, in his fearless stand for righteousness and justice, and established unity in the statement that "There is no God but God and Muhammad is his prophet."  The teachings of Muhammad are very little known in the Christian world, and it is only through the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh that they can be understood by Christians.
And now comes in this day to the Holy Land the manifestation of God for this day, Bahá'u'lláh.  Although this is new and the centuries have not yet accorded their wealth of adoration, it is not necessary to ask whether it is true or not, it is only necessary to take the instructions of Bahá'u'lláh and put them into practice in our lives to realize the warmth in the heart and the spiritual enlightenment which follows.  The proof of the sun is to step into the sunshine.  No need to ask the little plant whether it receives its warmth from the sun or from the cool dews of the evening.  This great revelation was vested in three persons, the Báb, the forerunner; Bahá'u'lláh, the great central figure, revealer of the Words of Life; 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the successor, the explainer, the Centre of the Covenant.  Bahá'u'lláh, although born in Persia; was transported to the Holy Land through the action of the Persian and Turkish governments.  Apparently through no will of his own he followed in a more extended way the journeying of Abraham.  Abraham came with his family and his flocks-Bahá'u'lláh came a prisoner and an exile, but he also came in majesty the like of which the world has never before witnessed.
It is not the purpose here to enter into a detailed account of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh.  It is sufficient to say that he has with divine power opened up the sacred mysteries of all religions, torn away all the barriers which separate mankind into unkind groups, made it possible for all humankind to enter into one body, of one thought and purpose under the banner of love and service, in a way entirely satisfying to the judgement of mind and heart.  All this with perfect order, everything provided in the fulfilment of this Covenant, even to the appointing of the Centre of the Covenant in the person of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
It is possible that mankind may reject this wonderful and perfect gift-but then again it is not possible.  It is inconceivable that a purpose extending down through the ages from before Abraham should fail at the appointed time of its consummation through the lack of human minds and hearts to receive it.  The Word of God has power to change the heart-history has shown that it can raise up from the stones children to Abraham.  The heart of the world is good.  Its power for good has been weakened by separation, it has grown up in separate groups, kept apart by lack of understanding which has grown into prejudice.  This prejudice will fade away before the divine power of this wonderful unfoldment (revelation) as the mists fade away before the morning sun.  Nothing can prevent the consummation of the divine plan throughout the ages.  "These ruinous wars, this fruitless strife must cease and all men become as one family."
So we find religion conforms to the great natural law.  The Spirit of God attaches itself from time to time to certain holy souls of such radiant purity that they are able to reflect to mankind the will of God.  Each one is a manifestation of the will of God for the needs of humanity in their day, and opens up a new era.  From Abraham down through each new manifestation, in Moses, Jesus and Muhammad, the world has been prepared for the time when the promised Covenant might be fulfilled.  And the need of this day in which we are now living is for the establishment of this age-old promised Covenant.  For the first time in history the Manifestation of God has come at a time when all parts of the world are in
page 286
daily communication with each other.  At no previous Manifestation could the whole world be united, for during the day of Moses, Jesus and Muhammad the western continents of North and South America had not yet been discovered.
When the people of the world unite in this great idea, set aside their own wills for the will of God (throughout the ages), the Divine Master will prevail and the world become the Paradise of Union, Love and Service, the brotherhood of man will be realized in the fatherhood of God, the Covenant to Abraham will have been fulfilled, the great underlying wave will have reached the surface.
Such was the great idea left with us by this pure-hearted, charming soul of the desert, and I think you will agree with us in the thought we expressed at the time we listened to him-that in his heart the desert had blossomed as a rose.  This and kindred thoughts were in our minds on this pleasant evening, meeting with such a delightful personality and listening to such a wonderful story.


XI:17, 19 January 1921
page 286
The Bahá'í Movement and Esperanto
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, compiled by Rufus W. Powell.
__________
September 1901
'Abdu'l-Bahá said to some pilgrims, "The differences between this Revelation and that of Jesus Christ are, that in this cycle all the inhabitants of the world will be gathered into one nation; universal peace will prevail, bloodshed and war will cease; there will be a universal language; union and harmony will reach its highest state."
__________
December 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"All through America I have encouraged the Bahá'ís to study Esperanto and to the extent of my ability I will strive in its spread and promotion."
__________
Extract from an address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá on International Language,57 given in Edinburgh, Scotland, 7 January 1913, under the auspices of the Edinburgh Esperanto Society, during which he said:
"His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, many years ago, wrote a book called The Most Holy Book, one of the fundamental
page 287
principles of which is the necessity of creating an auxiliary language, and he makes clear the good and profit which will come because of its use.  Now let us thank the Lord because this language, Esperanto, has been created.  We, therefore, have commanded all Bahá'ís in the East to study this language very carefully, and ere long it will be spread through the entire East.  I also beg of you all, Esperantists and non-Esperantists, to work energetically for the spread of this language, for it will hasten the coming of that day, that millennial day, foretold by prophets and seers, in which it is said that the wolf and the lamb shall drink from the same fountain, the lion and the deer shall feed in the same pasture.  The meaning of this holy writing is that hostile races, warring nations and differing religions shall become united in the spirit of love, and will become bound together, one with the other."
__________
While on a visit at Clifton, England, 16 January 1913, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed a meeting there, during which he said:
"The tenth principle is the establishment of a universal language so that we will not have to acquire so many languages in the future.  In schools they will study two, the mother tongue and the international auxiliary language.  The use of an international auxiliary language will become a great means of dispelling the differences between nations."
__________
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Esperanto Banquet, given at Hotel Moderne in Paris, France, 12 February 1913:
"In the human world there are two kinds of undertaking, universal and particular.  The result of every universal undertaking is infinite, and the outcome of every particular undertaking is finite.  In this age all the human problems which create a general interest are universal and their results are likewise universal, for humanity has become interdependent.  Today international laws have great influence, international policies are bringing nations nearer to one another.  Therefore it is a general axiom that in the human world every universal affair commands attention, and its results and benefits are limitless; therefore let us say that every universal cause is divine and every special matter is human.  For instance, the universal light is from the sun, therefore it is divine.  Special light which is electric and which has illumined this banquet hall is through the invention of man.  By this I mean that all the affairs in the world of humanity which are trying to establish solidarity between nations and infuse the spirit of universalism in the hearts are divine.  Consequently we can say that the international auxiliary language is one of the greatest virtues of the world of humanity, for such an instrument will remove misunderstandings from amongst the people, and will cement their hearts together.  The universal auxiliary language will be the means for each individual in the world of humanity to become enabled to be informed of the scientific accomplishments of all his fellow men.
"The basis of knowledge and the excellencies of the world are to teach and be taught.  To acquire sciences, and to teach them in turn, depends on language; therefore, when the international auxiliary language becomes universal, it is easily conceivable that the acquirement of knowledge and instruction will likewise become universal.
"No doubt you are aware that in the past ages a common language shared by various nations created a spirit of interdependence and solidarity among them.  For instance, one thousand three hundred years ago there were very many divergent nationalities in the Orient.  There were Copts in Egypt, Syrians in Syria, Assyrians in Musel, Babylonians in Baghdád along the river Mesopotamia.  There existed between these nations di-
page 290
vergence of opinion and hatred, but as they were slowly brought near to one another, finding common interests, they made the Arabic language a common vehicle of speech among them.  The study of this common language by all made them as one nation.  We know very well today that the Assyrians are not Arabs, that the Copts, Syrians, Chaldeans and Egyptians are not Arabs.  Each one of these nations belongs to its own sphere of nationality, but, as they all began to study the Arabic language, making it a vehicle of intercommunication, today, they are all considered as one.  They are so united that it is impossible to break this indissoluble bond.  Today in Syria there are many religious sects, such as Orthodox, Muslim, the Dorzi, Nestorians and so on.  As they all speak Arabic they are considered as one; if you ask any one of them, he will say:  I am an Arab, though in reality he is not.  Some of them are Greeks, others are Jews, etc.  In short, there are many different nations and religions in the Orient that are united through the benefit of a common language.  In the world of existence an international auxiliary language is the greatest bond to unite the people.  Today the causes of differences in Europe are the diversities of language.  We say, this man is a German, the other is an Italian, then we meet an Englishman and then again a Frenchman.  Although they belong to the same race, yet, language is the greatest barrier between them.  Were a universal auxiliary language now in operation they would all be considered as one.  Just as in the Orient a common language created common interests between the various nations, likewise, in this age a universal auxiliary language would unite all the people of the world.  The purpose of my remarks is, that, in the world of humanity, the greatest influence which will work for unity and harmony among the nations is the teaching of a universal language.  Every intelligent man will bear testimony to this, and there is no further need of argument or evidence.  Therefore His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh wrote about this international language more than forty years ago.  He says that as long as an international language is not invented complete union between the various sections of the world will be unrealized, for we observe that misunderstandings keep people from mutual association, and these misunderstandings will not be dispelled except through an international auxiliary language.  Generally speaking the whole people of the Orient are not fully informed of the events in the West, neither can the Westerners put themselves in sympathetic touch with the Easterners-their thoughts are enclosed in a casket-the international language will be the master key to open it.  Were we in possession of this universal language, the Western books could easily be translated into this language, and the Easterners be informed of their contents.  In the same way the books of the East could be translated into that language for the benefit of the Westerners.  Thus will the misunderstandings that exist between different religions be dispersed.  They bring about warfare and strife, and it is impossible to remove them without this universal language being spread everywhere.  I am an Easterner and on this account I know nothing of your thoughts because an international language is not yet in vogue.  Likewise you of the West are shut out of my thoughts.  If we had a common language both of us would be informed of the other's thoughts.  Consequently the strongest means of universal progress towards the union of East and West is this language.  It will make the whole world one home and will become the greatest impulse for human advancement.  It will upraise the standard of the oneness of the world of humanity, it will make the earth one uni-
page 291
versal commonwealth.  It will be the cause of love between the children of men.  It will cause good fellowship between the various races.  Now, praise be to God, that Dr Zamenhof has invented the Esperanto language.  It has all the potential qualities of becoming the international means of communication.  All of us must be grateful and thankful to him for this noble effort, for in this way he has served his fellow-men well.  He has invented a language which will bestow the greatest benefits on all people.  With untiring effort and self sacrifice on the part of its devotees it will become universal.  Therefore every one of us must study this language and spread it as far as possible so that day by day it may receive a broader recognition, be accepted by all nations and governments of the world and become a part of the curriculum in all the public schools.  I hope that the language of all the future international conferences and congresses will become Esperanto, so that all people may acquire only two languages-one their own tongue and the other the international auxiliary language.  Then perfect union will be established between all the people of the world.  Consider how difficult it is today to communicate with various nations.  If one studies fifty languages one may yet travel through a country and not know the language.  I know several languages of the Orient, but do not know the Western tongues.  If this international language were in force, having studied it, I should be able to speak it and you would have been directly informed of my thoughts, and a special friendship established between every one of us.  The lack of such a language is now a great barrier.
"Therefore I hope that you will make the utmost effort, so that this language of Esperanto may be widely spread.  Send some teachers to Persia if you can, so that they may teach it to the young people, and I have written to Persia to tell some of the Persians to come here to study it.
"I hope that this language will be promulgated very quickly and the world of humanity finds eternal peace; that all the nations may associate with one another and become as brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers; then each individual member of the body politic will be fully informed of the thoughts of all.
"I am extremely grateful to you, and thank you for these lofty aims, for you have gathered at this banquet to further this language.
"Your hope is to render a mighty service to the world of humanity, and for this great aim I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart."
__________
Extract from Address of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Theosophical Society of Paris, France, Thursday evening, 13 February 1913.
"We observe that today the means of unity are brought about.  This in itself is an evidence that the divine confirmations are with us.  One of the principles of the oneness of the world of humanity is the invention of the universal auxiliary language, Esperanto.  We observe that this language is spreading daily, and its advocates are increasing.  It is indubitable that the universal auxiliary language will become instrumental in wiping away the present misunderstandings and each individual will be able to be informed of the thought of all humanity.
"Therefore we must all strive to spread among our fellow men this language.  This international auxiliary language will be an introduction to the establishment of the oneness of the world of humanity.  The greatest efforts must be displayed in this direction."
__________
Excerpt from Tablet, 10 January 1919:
"My hope is that the Esperantists may become attracted by these epistles and may consider the magnitude of confirmation bestowed upon the Esperanto Language and may endeavour to translate some of the important Tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and propagate them all around."


XI:17, 19 January 1921
page 287
Second Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed to the Committee of Universal Peace at The Hague
(The first Tablet is in Star of the West, Vol. XI:8, pp. 123-127, 129-134.)
To the Honourable Executive Committee of Universal Peace.
HE IS GOD!
O ye honourable Members!
Your kind answer to my letter, dated 12 June 1920, has arrived and greatly pleased me.  Praise be unto God, that it was indicative of the fact that your motive and purpose is identical with that of ours.  Its contents also consisted of spiritual susceptibilities which are expressive of sincere love.
We, Bahá'ís, feel great affection towards that honourable Assembly.  Therefore have we sent two honoured persons to that highly esteemed Assembly as a sign of strong relationship.
Today the most important problem in the affairs of the world of humanity is that of the Universal Peace, which is the greatest means contributing to the very life and happiness of mankind.  Without this most luminous reality it is impossible for humanity to attain to actual comfort and proficiency.  Nay rather, shall it have, day by day, some additional misfortune and tragedy.
This last terrible war has clearly proved that the modern war implements are beyond the endurance of the world of humanity.  The future cannot, however, be compared with the past, because the arms and war implements of the past were very simple, while the modern armaments can, in a short time, exterminate the whole of the human world, and so they are beyond the endurance of mankind.
page 289
Therefore Universal Peace is, in this age, like unto the sun which is the cause of life to all beings.  So it is of prime importance and incumbent upon every individual to strive for this most significant end.  Now with oneness of goal we, I mean ye and we, will strive with all our strength, sacrificing (in this path) property, life and family.
As ye may no doubt have heard, thousands of souls, (Bahá'ís) have, in Persia, sacrificed their lives in this path and thousands of homes have undergone destruction.  Notwithstanding this, we have not yielded to disappointment.  Up to the present, we have been striving and every day we are putting forth a new effort.  Why?  Because peace-loving is not only one of the products of the intellect, but also it is a belief based on faith and it is one of the eternal principles of God.  Therefore, we are striving with all our energy; disregarding our self-interests, rest, comfort and even the management of our own affairs of life, because we consider this noble motive as the very foundation of the religions of God.  It is a service to the Kingdom of God.  It contributes to the attainment of eternal life and is the greatest means for the entrance into the Kingdom of the Merciful.
Today the advantages of Universal Peace are to mankind well proved and the disadvantages of war are similarly unquestioned by all.  But in this problem, knowledge alone is not sufficient.  An executive force is needed so that it (Universal Peace) may become established throughout the world.  Ye should be thinking to draw help from some spiritual executive force so that this lofty ideal may be brought out from the stage of imagination into that of realization.  And it is evident that this most great aspiration cannot be attained through the ordinary emotions.  Nay rather, it needs intense spiritual feelings to turn it from potentiality to actuality.
Almost all the people of the earth know that amiability of character is praiseworthy and desirable and that badness of character is despised and distasteful.  Similarly do they know that justice and fairness is agreeable and attractive and cruelty and tyranny abominable and repulsive.  Notwithstanding this, all the people, with the exception of a limited number, are lacking in praiseworthy character and justice.
Therefore, they are in need of a spiritual force and higher sentiments to improve their character.  Our firm belief is that the executive power for this great problem is the power of the Word of God and the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.
We feel great relationship, love and union with ye.  With heart and soul, we are longing for the day when the pavilion of the oneness of the world of humanity may be pitched in the world and the banner of Universal Peace may wave upon all horizons.  Therefore the oneness of the world of humanity should be established in order that the edifice of Universal Peace may be erected.
That honourable Assembly, which is the well-wisher of the world of humanity, is highly honoured by all Bahá'ís.  Therefore do we ask ye to kindly accept our highest respects and to keep us always informed of the progress of Universal Peace in Europe.  Constant communication should be carried on between us.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh Khan S. Bahádur, Haifa, Mount Carmel, Palestine, 12 July 1920.


XI:18, 7 February 1921
page 299
International language
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, delivered at Edinburgh on 7 January 1913, under the auspices of the Edinburgh Esperanto Society.  Translated into English and Esperanto.
Every movement in the world of humanity bringing on its back unity and accord is good; and every matter which creates discord and disharmony is evil.  This century is a radiant century.  Its discoveries are many.  Its inventions are great.  Its undertakings are multitudinous.  On account of these great accomplishments, this century is superior to all other centuries.  But the greatest undertaking is the unification of language, because it is more beneficial and productive of more pleasure than any other undertaking of this age.  The unity of language brings about great fellowship between hearts.  The union of language is the cause of the attainment of accord.  It brings about the entire sweeping away of misunderstanding between the people; it establishes accord between all the children of men.  It gives broader conceptions and greater vision to human minds, and today the greatest undertaking in the world of humanity is to understand and make yourself understood.  Every individual member of the body politic, on account of the widespread of an auxiliary international language, will be enabled to put himself in touch with the current events and ethical and scientific discoveries of the age.  An auxiliary universal language will give us the key-or the master key-to the understanding of the secrets of the past ages.  Through an international language every nation in the future will be enabled to pursue its scientific discoveries very easily and without any difficulty.
page 300
It is well known to you that the Oriental people, young men coming to the West trying laboriously to study the discoveries of the West, for many years must work hard, so that first they may study the language and then their special branch of learning.  At the very least, they must give many years of their life to the study of the language of the country they go to; then they can start on the study of that special branch of science in which they are interested.  For example, let us suppose that a young man from India or Persia or Turkistán or Arabia, desiring to study medicine, comes to this country; at the very least he must study the English language for four years, and nothing else; and then he may begin the study of medicine.  But if this international auxiliary language were a part of the curriculum of education in all the schools, in his childhood he would study that language in his own country; and then, no matter to which country he desired to go, he would be enabled to study his special branch of science very easily, without losing any years of his life.
Today, even if each one of us studied languages, yet, if some one desired to travel abroad, he might be handicapped on account of not knowing the special language of a given country.  I have studied the Oriental languages very profoundly, knowing the Arabic language more deeply than the Arabians themselves, having studied the Turkish language and the Persian in my own native land, and knowing other languages of the East, yet, when I came to the West, I was obliged to bring a translator with me, and it is as if I know no language whatever.  But if there were an international language, well, the Persian language of my own native land and the other one would have been sufficient to carry me along in all the countries of the world.  Just think how the international language will facilitate communication between all nations of the world.  Let it be said that half of our lives is spent in the acquirement of
page 301
languages; for in this enlightened age every man must study languages, so that if he expects to travel to Asia and Africa and Europe he may be able to converse with the people; but by the time he has studied one language, there is another one to travel to.  So you see that his life is spent in the acquirement of these languages, which are a handicap to international communication.  Well, this international language will free man from all these problems.  In short, to understand and make yourself understood, there must needs be an international instrument.  The teacher and the student must know each other's language, so that the teacher may be able to impart his knowledge and the student acquire that knowledge.  In the world of humanity there is no greater factor than to make yourself understood to your fellowmen, for civilization itself, the progress of civilization, depends upon this process.  To acquire arts and sciences one must know how to speak, make himself understand and understood at the same time.  So on this understanding and making yourself understood will depend the acquisition of sciences, and it will make men comprehend all affairs of life; and this process of understanding and making yourself understood depends upon language.  Therefore, if this auxiliary language is established, all the members of humanity will then be enabled to understand each other.  As I speak now, an episode comes to my mind which happened in Baghdád.  There were two friends who did not know each other's language.  One of them got sick; the other one called upon him, but he could not express his sympathy, so by making a sign he asked him, "How are you?"  By making another sign, the sick man answered "I am almost dying," and the friend who called, thinking that he had told him that he was feeling much better, said, "Thanks be to God."  By such incidents you realize that the best thing in this world is to be able to make yourself understood by your friends, and also to
page 302
understand them, and there is nothing worse in this world than not to be able to convey your thoughts.  But if there is this auxiliary language, all these difficulties will be removed.
Now, praise to God, this language of Esperanto is invented, and this is one of the special endowments of this brilliant century; this is one of the greatest undertakings of this great age.  Up to this time the world of humanity has failed to bring about this invention.  This unification of languages had never crossed the minds of the thinkers of the past ages, and in reality it was an impossibility in those times, because then there was no freedom in going and coming, and no travelling and no intercourse between the various countries.  Now the means of communication and transport are greatly increased, therefore it is necessary and it is possible to bring about the use of this international language.
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh fifty years ago wrote a book; that book is called "The Most Holy Book", and in that book one of the fundamental principles of the Bahá'í movement is that there must be the invention of an auxiliary language; and then he goes on to explain the benefits and profits that will accrue through such a medium.  Now, let us thank the Lord because this Esperanto language has been created.  Therefore we have commanded all the Bahá'ís in the Orient to study this language very carefully, and ere long it will spread all over the East.  Therefore I request you also, non-Esperantists and fellow-Esperantists, to put your utmost exertion into the spread and promulgation of this language, because it will hasten that day, that millennial day, which has been prophesied by the past prophets and seers, that day in which, it is said, the wolf and lamb will drink from the same fount, the lion and the deer graze in the same meadow.  The signification of this Holy Writ is that the contesting races, warring nations, inimical religions, will come to each other in the spirit of love and amity-then, the day-spring of that
page 303
millennium; and every means, every instrument which confers unity and amity upon the children of men, that is love and that is the spirit.
As we said, the greatest affair in this world is the reality of an auxiliary international language.  The unification of language will transform the world of humanity into one world; the unification of language will do away with the misunderstandings between religions, and the unification of language will bring together the East and the West in the spirit of fellowship and love.  The unification of language will change this world of many families into one family.  This auxiliary international language will gather the various races under one cover, as if the five continents of the world had become one continent, because then they can convey their thoughts to each other.  The international auxiliary language will do away with ignorance and superstition, for each child, no matter to which race or nation he may belong, will be able to pursue his studies in science and art, because at that time he will be called on to study only two languages-one his own native language, and one the international auxiliary language.  Let us hope for that day, when even the boundaries of native languages will be swept away and the world will enjoy one language.  What greater bounty is there than this?  What more munificent welfare is there than this?  Then the world of humanity will become the delectable paradise, just as it is said that in heaven there is one language.  The material world will become the expression of the world of the inner.  Then the discoveries will be unfolded; inventions will become multiple; sciences will advance by leaps and bounds; scientific agriculture will take a wider sphere of accomplishment, because at that time the nations will be able quickly to assimilate the thoughts which are expressed, and because all these thoughts will be expressed in that universal language.  If this international language is a factor in the future, all
page 306
the countries of the East will be enabled to acquire the sciences of the West in no time, because they will be able to read these books and comprehend their meaning; and the Western nations will be enabled to acquire the thoughts and ideas of the East, and through this they will be enabled to improve their condition.  In short, on account of the establishment of this international language, the world of humanity will become another world; extraordinary progress will be attained.  Take, for example, a family in which the various members speak each a different language; how difficult it is for them to convey their thoughts to one another, and how great and wonderful it is when they are able easily to understand one another's thoughts.  For if they know one another's language, they will go on very rapidly; there is no doubt whatever about this.  Therefore it is our hope that the Esperanto language will spread universally before long, that it may be promulgated in all the countries, so that all the people may live together in the spirit of amity and love.


XI:18, 7 February 1921
page 306
Tablets to Bahá'ís in America received in 1919 and 1920
James Morton, Jr.
Through Mr Wilhelm to Mr James Morton, Jr., New York City-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou firm in the Covenant!
As to thy attendance at the Esperanto Congress at the Hague in the month of August, it is very advisable.  Thou shouldst show utmost efficiency thereat, in order to spread the divine teachings, one of which is the oneness of language; and thence thou shouldst proceed to the desired land (Haifa and 'Akká).  Then from here thou shouldst hasten to Persia, and return to America, where thou shouldst give lectures, explain what thou hast experienced and give the glad tidings of the greatness of the Cause of God.
Upon thee be the Glory of the Most Glorious!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, 27 March 1920, Haifa.
Marie Watson
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Marie Watson-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou Herald of the Covenant!
Thy detailed letters have been re-
page 307
ceived, and have been attentively perused.  Praise thou God, that thou art confirmed in service to the Kingdom and art encompassed by the blessings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Heavenly confirmations are descending upon thee and lordly assistance is encircling thee.  Thou art eloquent at every gathering and art responded to at every assemblage.  Souls listen in the utmost gladness to thy words and in case a soul objects or antagonizes he will ultimately be awakened and made aware, for the powerful and mighty souls and the ruling potentates have failed to resist the call of the Kingdom.  Násiri'd-Dín Sháh, the Sovereign of Persia, and 'Abdu'l Hamíd, the Sultán of Turkey, have tried to resist the call with all their power and might, but the call has been raised higher every day and those two blood-thirsty autocratic sovereigns have been inflicted with a severe loss and disappointment.
In short, engage with all thy power in raising the call of the Kingdom of God and rest thou assured that assistance and confirmation shall descend upon thee.  The attracted maid-servant of God, Miss Juliet Thompson, is indeed spiritual, lordly and merciful.  Extend to her my greeting.  His honour, Mr Wilhelm, exerts his effort under all conditions and contributes extensively for the Bahá'í Cause.  Undoubtedly, other souls should join him in promoting the work of teaching.  To the believing maid-servant of God, Miss Buskin, convey greeting and congratulation for her marriage.
Souls are still unaware of the power of the Covenant.  This testament is neither a tradition or a tale.  It has been established through the pen of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh with the utmost firmness and undoubtedly if all the people of the world join in endeavouring to uproot it, they will all eventually fail and be disappointed.  What can therefore a handful of people do?
The power of the Covenant is like unto the sun and those who have acted contrary to it are like transparent clouds.  The Sun of the Covenant dissipates dense clouds and causes them to vanish.  What then will it do to these imaginary mists?  Thou dost consider that in all regions the Call of the Covenant is being raised and in the utmost power.  His Holiness Christ said to Peter, "Thou art Peter and upon this rock I will build my Church."  This Word could not be resisted by all the people of the world and eventually it has been made evident and manifest.  At present His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has through His sacred pen established this Covenant in the utmost power, perfection and clearness.  Consider then what power it yields.  At present some superficial souls like unto bats are plotting together in the dark, and say to one another that this Sun of the Covenant shall be eclipsed and the resplendent Moon of the Testament shall be concealed.  But the Sun of the Covenant through one effulgence shall disperse and annihilate these bats.
The poems were in the utmost sweetness and delicacy.  My hope from the bounties of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh is that thou mayest become the cause of the awakening, the supplication, the prayer and the guidance of souls.
In case Mr Kelsey will in the utmost longing and desire join thee in thy journey to China, Japan and India, and is able to endure its hardships, and will not give up its responsibilities, it is highly advisable.
Convey to Dr Mullaney on my behalf the utmost kindness and give her this message:  "Praise thou God, that in the midst of this darkness that has encompassed this world thou hast been illumined, and hast been guided and hast been made the recipient of bounty.  Thou must be eternally grateful to the soul who has been the cause of thy guidance, for that soul hath guided thee."
page 308
Convey to Dr McMannon on my behalf respectful greeting.  My hope is that through the light of the love of God he may become an ignited candle and a flower of the rose-garden.  Upon them be Bahá'u'lláh!
Any soul that may like to accompany thee with the utmost pleasure and satisfaction in thy trip and has ability and capacity and will show thee full consideration, thou mayst select and choose to be thy fellow-traveller.
Upon the be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 24 December 1919.
Mr and Mrs Killius
To Mr and Mrs A. C. Killius, Montana-Upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two who are firm in the Covenant!
Your letter dated 28 January 1920 has been received.  Its contents were indicative of heart-felt realities, which were conducive to firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant of God.
Although in the body of the universe there are innumerable nerves, yet the main artery, which pulsates, energizes, and invigorates all beings, is the power of the Covenant.  All else is secondary to this.  Nobody is assisted and confirmed save that soul who is firm.  Consider it well that every soul who is firm in the Covenant is luminous, like unto a candle which emanates its light on those around it.  While every wavering soul is an utter failure, frozen, lifeless, dead yet moving.  This one proof is sufficient.
Ye should render thanksgiving unto God, that ye are able to travel throughout the states and regions, and like unto the breeze of spring, transmit new spirit to every city through which ye pass.
Praise be unto God, that thy departed father turned his face to the Supreme Aspect.  He drank from the Chalice of Guidance, and soared without feather or wing to the Infinite Paradise.  I am supplicating unto God that thy honoured mother may also attain to guidance.  The date58 1335 is not lunar, it is solar, therefore it has not yet arrived.
Praise be unto God, that in Springfield, Illinois, the fragrances of the love of God have been diffused and the call of the Kingdom hath been raised.  The photograph of dear son Russell was observed.  Verily, the expression of his face indicates great skill.  I am beseeching unto God that the friends of that city may day by day attain unto heavenly progress.
Upon ye both be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 27 March 1920.
Russell Jurgens
Through Mr and Mrs A. C. Killius, of Montana-Upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!-to Russell Jurgens, Springfield, Illinois-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O dear child!
Thanks be unto God, that in thine infancy thou hast entered the divine Kingdom and hast obtained a portion of the graces of the Lord of Hosts.  My supplication to God is this, that thou mayest be reared in the bosom of the love of God, and in the utmost attraction attain to thy maturity.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 27 March 1920.
[end of Book 6 (Vol. X, Nos 6-19; and Vol. XI, Nos 1-18)]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	Refer to the Tablet for the Southern American States in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 67-73.
1	A spark.
1	Quoted section is in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 206.
2	Nom-de-plume of 'Alí-Qulí Khán.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá even terms the inventive faculty supernatural because inventions make it possible for men to overcome the natural.-Editors.
4	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 29-30.
5	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 19.
6	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, p. 390.
7	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 163.
8	Abdu'l-Baha:  Star of the West, Vol. V, No. 5, p. 71.
9	Refer to the Tablet for the Central American States in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 13-17.
10	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 13-17.
11	The state of being generally ill spoken of.
12	Unintentional.
13	Blood-like fluid.
14	Bahá'ís understand the Word of God again was "made flesh and dwelt among us" in the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh.  Miss Weinstein, not being acquainted with this fact, looks upon the Bahá'í Movement as a cult or "ism".-The Editors.
15	Jillábíyya [Ar.] Gúllábíyya [Pers.] coat.-M.W.T.
16	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 83-89.
17	The Addresses of 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered in America in 1912.
18	Paragraph from 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 210-211.
19	Previous five paragraphs are from 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 211-213.
20	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 63.
21	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 82.
22	That is the letter 'B', the second letter of the alphabet.
23	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 101-102.
24	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Seven Valleys and Four Valleys, p. 12.
25	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 12.
26	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 100-107.
27	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of the Divine Plan, p. 34.
28	A nickname.
29	a fortiori (Latin):  more conclusively
30	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, pp. 38-39.
31	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 42.
32	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 42.
33	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 43.
34	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selected Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 196
35	30 September 1912.
36	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selected Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 196.  [Last two paragraphs.]
37	Refer to Some Answered Questions, p. 43; and Lights of Guidance, No. 1414, p. 432.
38	French:  Everlasting.
39	Nicaea is south of modern Izmit, and Bithynia, Asia Minor, is a region that is now northern Turkey.
40	May be Shahríyár.
41	Tamil?
42	Exedra:  in ancient Greece, a room, building, or outdoor area with seats, where conversations were held.
43	The nine-pointed star is also symbolic of unity (nine).
44	"... Strictly speaking the five-pointed star is the symbol of our Faith, as used by the Báb and explained by Him."  Shoghi Effendi cited in Lights of Guidance, p. 110.
45	Exoteric:  that can be understood by the public; popular.
46	Containing an outline of the history and principles of the Bahá'í Movement.
47	See Tablet to Martha Root, Star of the West, X:2, p. 30, para. 1.  The Editors.
48	Lua Getsinger was one of the first in America to accept and serve the Bahá'í Cause.  See Star of the West, VII:4, pp. 29-30; and VII:19, pp. 193-194.  The Editors.
49	Lua Getsinger.
50	Note:  This Tablet written nine years ago, has just been received:  It was delayed in transmitting.  28 February 1920.-C. M. R.
51	Now called a Local Spiritual Assembly.
52	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 63.
53	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 82.
54	Translation- An (that) Khaneh [Khánih] (house) tátaváníd (as much as ye are able) naforúshíd (do not sell) biguzáríd (allow or let) an (that) asár (a sign) az shumá (of yourselves) báqí (permanent) bimánd (remain).
55	Refers to the magazine Reality, edited and published by them in New York City.-The Editors.
56	Song entitled, "The New Liberty Bell", dedicated to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the Bahá'í Juniors.-Shahnáz Waite.
57	Refer to full article in Star of the West, XI:18, pp. 299-303.
58	See Chapter 12 of Daniel.
