This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  October 2000.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
from the George Ronald Book 2 reprint of
Star of the West1
Volume II, Nos 12-19 (16 October 1911-2 March 1912)
and
Volume III, Nos 1-18 (21 March 1912-7 February 1913)


II:12, 16 October 1911
page 2
[Reprinted from The Christian Commonwealth, issue of 20 September 1911.  Reported by Peggy Scott.]
The vanishing of the veil
Eighteen months ago Archdeacon Wilberforce, who had been watching the Bahá'í Faith for some time with interest, sent a message to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "We are all one," he said, "there, behind the veil."  And 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied from his home in 'Akká, "Tell him the veil is very thin, and that it will vanish quite."
...
page 12
... 'Abdu'l-Bahá prayed:  "O God, the Forgiver!  O Heavenly Educator.  This assembly is adorned with the mention of thy holy name.  Thy children turn their face towards thy kingdom.  Hearts are made happy and souls are comforted.  Merciful God!  Cause us to repent of our shortcomings!  Accept us in thy heavenly kingdom and give unto us an abode where there shall be no error.  Give us peace.  Give us knowledge, and open unto us the gates of thy heaven.
"Thou art the Giver of all!  Thou art the Forgiver!  Thou art the Merciful!"


II:12, 16 October 1911
page 3
'Abdu'l-Bahá in London
[At Mrs Thornburgh-Cropper's home]
"You are all one family; you have grown out of one root.  Each of you is like a branch, a flower, a fruit.  You must look on no one as a stranger.  You should try to show the greatest love to all men and to every creature.  I have come to you as to my own people-brothers and sisters, sons and daughters.  My bond is with all mankind; so should yours be.  Try to follow the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, then each one will shine like a star.  Since the time of Adam there has been no other teaching; until the end of time there will be no other."
_______________
On Friday morning, the 8 September, 'Abdu'l-Bahá received a small party of earnest spiritual souls, in Lady Blomfield's drawing room:  He walked in smiling and said, "Good morning," in English, then taking a seat, he enquired through the interpreter, Tamaddunu'l-Mulk, "How are you?  Are you all happy?  You are welcome."
I replied, "Yes, we are all very well.  We thank you.  It is a great privilege to meet you."
He said:  "I have journeyed by sea and land for the pleasure of seeing you all.  I needed a change, but my desire was to know you all.  Praise be to God, that I have seen the luminous faces and the heavenly hearts of the friends in London.  People are turning their faces toward God.  They are seeking the Divine Bounty.  Therefore they will receive a heavenly blessing which I pray may be bestowed upon all.  May you love all and serve all, because serving mankind is serving God.  Everyone should be kind.  Everyone should strive for unity and endeavour to serve mankind.  All nations should become as one nation and each should serve all.
"Do not make personal distinctions.  All are God's servants.  All are under His protection."
page 4
...
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "There is no difference between Paris and London.  All these limitations, all these divisions into various nationalities are, due to the weakness of man.  If man's mind were broad enough," he said, tapping his brow, "if it were strong enough, these divisions would vanish.  The, earth is God's earth and all the peoples of the world are under His grace and favour."
The portrait of Dr Platon Drakoules, of Athens, a leading Greek reformer, was shown to him.  He objected to the use of the term "leader" but blessed his work and also that of the "active people" of the "Unity Church", four of whom were present, and sent salutations to all its members, saying, "You are striving to please God.  Today all distinctions between man and man fall away; there only remains the degree of striving to serve.  He who serves most is nearest to God.  The satisfaction of mankind is the satisfaction of God."
Again looking at the picture of Dr Drakoules, he said to Mrs Drakoules:  "From this portrait I gather the goodness and spirituality of your husband."  Then he said, rising from his chair, "I pray for God to bless you and help you all.
_______________
On the 12 September, Mrs Thornburgh-Cropper gave her second "At Home" to the friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  There were about forty-five present.  'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following discourse:
"Thanks be to God, this is a good meeting.  It is very enlightened; it is spiritual; it is heavenly.  As has been said by a Persian poet, the celestial globe is in such a form that the under part is, as it were, a reflection of the upper part.  That is to say, whatever exists in heaven is reflected in this world.  Now, praise be to God that this meeting of ours is a reflection from the Heavenly Concourse.  It is as though we had taken a mirror and gazed into it.  This reflection from the Heavenly Concourse is love.  As harmony and love exists in the Supreme Concourse, so it is reflected here.  In the Supreme Concourse the desire for God exists and thank God it is here also.  Therefore, if we say that this meeting is heavenly, it is true.  Why?  Because we have no other desire except for that which comes from God.  We have no other object save the mentioning of God.
"Some of the people of the earth desire conquest over others; some of them are longing for rest and ease; others desire a high position; some of them desire to become famous; thank God that our desire is for spirituality and for union with God.
"Now that we are gathered here our desire is to hoist the Standard of the Unity of God, to spread the Light of God and to make the hearts of the people heavenly.  Therefore I thank God that He is causing us to do this great work.
page 5
"I pray for all of you, that all of you may become heavenly soldiers and that you may everywhere spread the news of the Unity of God and may enlighten the East and the West and give to all hearts the love of God.  This is my utmost desire and I pray God that your desire way be the same.
"I am very much pleased with you all.  I am pleased with the English king and government and with the people.  You may thank God that you are free.  You do not know what lack of freedom there is in the East; but when anyone comes to this country he is very content.  I wish God's protection for you."
_______________
On Friday, the 22 September, Miss Jack and Miss Herrick invited friends to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá at 137A High Street, Kensington, and about eighty accepted their invitation.
It was a decidedly cold day after the hot weather, and the air felt raw.  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá had taken his seat, he asked:  "Are you all well?  Are you all happy?"  He places great significance in these two questions which he always asks, thereby impressing us that true Bahá'ís must he well in spirit and ought to be correspondingly well in body, and always happy, whatever the circumstances.  Then he said:
"Although the day is cold for me to go out, yet I have come to see you.  For the lover there are no difficulties; all is easy.  For love I have journeyed to London.  I see that all present are in harmony and love and with longing turning their faces towards God.  All are attracted to the Kingdom.  I give thanks that they are looking towards God, their only desire being to seek the world of the Kingdom, to see the Light of God and to partake of the Heavenly bounty.
"The East and the West are becoming one and showing the signs of Unity and Love.  The hopes of Bahá'u'lláh are that there be no more separation or discord, for ye are all the waves of one sea, the birds in one heaven and mirrors of the same Bounty.  Your civilization has grown under the banner of Jesus Christ, you have the light of reason, and just government has been established in the West.
"The Sun of Truth arises in the Orient and shines from the East to the West.  Then civilization and education appear in the Occident and spread from West to East; but the Light of the Kingdom shines from East to West.  This is the outpouring of the Holy Spirit and the spring time of heaven, when the heavenly civilization is being bestowed upon the people.
"It has come now when they were not shining with this Light, nor caring for it.  I hope that the Western people will now receive this New Light and become illuminated by it, and that the East may have improved civilization from the West."
...
page 6
...
_______________
How is one impressed by meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá?  To see, hear, or meet him can never, it seems to me, be a shock, a startling surprise, or an overwhelming impression.  It is a perfectly natural and simple experience, and may even, at first seem rather disappointing; but 'Abdu'l-Bahá will ever grow upon you, even if the meeting is only once.  Gradually, you will realize, more and more, that it is you have been in the presence of and made contact with.  Not a personality, nor a dazzling individual, but so wonderful a state of perfect detachment and consecration have you encountered that it seems as if you are being lovingly addressed by the Holy Spirit Itself.  It is a great lesson to us of a man's perfect attainment.  We see before our eyes the attitude towards God each one of us ought to assume, so that each one in his place may be fully enabled to love all mankind abundantly, and act with the greatest wisdom, always shedding round him joy and happiness.
Coining into 'Abdu'l-Bahá's presence, we may forget everything, cease to believe anything, and may say he is but an Oriental man after all.  We may question whether we are even a believer.  We may desire to revise everything, that we may have only the truth and nothing but the truth.  Then, Lo and behold.  Truth stands out boldly!  We still believe, but this belief which formerly floated high upon the surface of the sea-where it was rocked and tossed by every wind-now floats more deeply, being well ballasted, so that outer things henceforth can little affect it.
When we look at 'Abdu'l-Bahá with the eye of insight, meditating upon the words of love and wisdom emanating from him, remembering the hosts of people so deeply affected by them, and realizing that only a very few careless or mistaken directions from him could immediately and probably would sacrifice over a million human lives, then do we grasp some little idea of the wonderful Guidance given him in the midst of the difficulties with which he has ever been surrounded.  In the light of this, the personality first encountered disappears; it is sunk, it is resolved in his perfect consecration, in his absolute abandonment to the Spirit.  As you look, a veil seems to come over his eyes, and you wonder where he is gazing.  He, the individual person, seems as if eclipsed by the very divine Spirit of God.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is there, but only as the material focal-point perfectly serving the Light, as an existing object upon which the invisible Radiance impinges, and which thus becomes manifested unto us in all manner of wise, loving and fruitful ways.  So doth the Reality of 'Abdu'l-Bahá impress the soul as it advances.
25 September 1911	Arthur Cuthbert


II:12, 16 October 1911
page 8
[Reprinted from The Christian Commonwealth, issue of 27 September 1911.  Reported by Peggy Scott.]
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Bristol
Last Saturday afternoon 'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived from London with a few friends to spend the weekend at the Clifton Guest House.  After a rest he expressed the wish to see the country around Bristol.  What impressed him most was the fresh, green of the woods and fields, the spaciousness of the open downs, and the absence of smoke.
The same evening about eighty friends assembled to listen to the words of the great Persian teacher.  Mr Tudor Pole took the chair and introduced him by a few words on the Bahá'í Faith.  'Abdu'l-Bahá then rose and spoke with impressive dignity, Tamaddunu'l-Mulk translating:
The master says that he has come from very far to see you, and that you are very welcome.  He praises God that after forty-two years of imprisonment for the faith he is able to come to you.  'Abdu'l-Bahá then continued:  "These people are very spiritual, with hearts looking towards God, waiting for the glad tidings.  They have come through the power of the Holy Spirit, therefore we thank God.  May he send you straightforwardness to guide you to your holy mountains and blessed places; the Truth has come, let its holy springs water you.  It is evident that day follows night, and after dawn the sunset.  Just as the sun sets and rises and sets again, so Jesus Christ appeared on the horizon of this world like a sun of Truth, bringing light and joy to the whole world.  But the people now are not in such close touch with his spirit; their religion and faith are not so strong.  The people are searching after material things instead of looking forward to the kingdom.  Again God has sent light and truth into the world.  The heavenly star has appeared in Persia; a new spiritual illumination is now penetrating throughout the world (the result of Bahá'u'lláh's teaching).  The great light shall spread through all lands."  'Abdu'l-Bahá said that our hearts should become as mirrors and be ready prepared for the glad tidings of the dawning of a new age.  Jesus Christ said that we should be born again through the spiritual fire and love of God and be baptized by the water of life and the Holy Spirit, that we may obtain everlasting life.  'Abdu'l-Bahá went on to say:  "Be very kind and serve every one; become lovers of justice and pray for the whole of mankind; help the poor and the children; heal the sick; shelter the refugees; and be known by your lives as the children of God; so may that sun become the light of the world, casting its radiance upon East and West.  May the world become a new world; may war and slaughtering cease and the most Great Peace come.  God help you to spread this Divine teaching, and to establish everywhere the characteristics of Jesus."  He then prayed as follows:  "O God, these people are your servants; they turn their faces to you to receive the manifestations of your bounty.  Brighten all these hearts and bless their souls.  Give them new life to follow your teachings.  Let them enter into your kingdom, and bestow on them the blessing of the Holy Spirit.  Open their eyes to the light and help them to serve mankind.  Thou art a powerful giver and merciful.  God bless you all."
...


II:12, 16 October 1911
page 11
[Extract from a letter written by Charles Mason Remey]
Regarding Bahá'u'lláh and himself, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Bahá'u'lláh is the root, I am the Branch.  The root of a tree does not bear fruit.  The fruit is found upon the branches."


II:13, 4 November 1911
page 3
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Through Áqá Ahmad Sohráb and Jináb Mr Remey.  To all friends of Abhá in America:
Upon them be the Glory of God!
O friends of Bahá'u'lláh!
Your letters reached me and were read with great joy.  Praise be to God, that they are the proofs of Saith and assurance in the Kingdom of Abhá.  They are witnesses of firmness and steadfastness and earnest supplication.
His highness Jesus says if the Promised One manifests in the East, his signs will appear in the West.  Now give thanks to God that as the Great Sun arose in the East, his Brilliant Light shone upon the West and brightened the western world.  Therefore you must give a thousand thanks every moment that though you were apparently very far off, in reality you were near.
A blind person cannot see the sun though near, but eyes with sight can see it from a thousand miles' distance.  For this the Great Almighty be praised, that in the far west the nostrils are perfumed by the Holy Fragrance.
Appreciate this Bounty, be happy and joyful for this Divine boundless Bounty.  With great love you have asked for the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America, I also greatly wish to go to the friends and see their interesting faces.  But during this journey I have no time.  I must go back to the East, this is according to wisdom.  Therefore with great regret and sorrow at separation I am obliged to return.  If it pleases God next year I will take a journey towards the West so that I may engage myself in seeing the faces of the friends, in proclaiming the Word of God and in spreading the Divine Fragrance and the calling of the Kingdom of God in the great meetings and assemblies.
If you only knew in what condition of tumult and excitement of longing is the soul and heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to see you, then surely, because of the greatness of your happiness you would express your joy in music and song and engage yourselves in the melodies of the Supreme Court in worshipping and praising Almighty God.
Upon you be the Glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


II:13, 4 November 1911
page 4
[Reprinted from The Christian Commonwealth, London, England, issue of 4 October 1911.]
Farewell to 'Abdu'l-Bahá
...
page 5
...
Then "The Master" rose to give his farewell address.  An impressive figure, the face rather worn, but the eyes full of animation, he stood for about fifteen minutes, speaking in soft, musical Persian.  From time to time he gently stroked his white beard, and with hands extended, palms upwards, he closed with a prayer:
O noble friends and seekers for the Kingdom of God!  God be praised! we see the light of love is shining in the East and the West; and the tent of intercourse is raised in the centre of the world for the drawing together of hearts and souls.  The call of the Kingdom has gone all over the world.  The annunciation of the world's Universal Peace has enlightened the world's conscience.  My hope is that by the zeal and ardour of the pure-hearted, the darkness of hatred and differences will be entirely abolished, and the light of love and unity will shine more brightly.  This world shall become a new world.  Things material will become the mirror of the Kingdom.  Human hearts will meet and embrace each other.  The whole world shall become as a man's native country; and different races shall be counted as one race.  Then disputes and differences will vanish, and the Divine Beloved will be revealed in the society of mankind.  It is because the East and the West are illumined by the One Sun, all races, nations, and creeds are the servants of the One God.  The whole earth is one home, and all peoples are bathed in the ocean of God's mercy.  God created all.  He gives sustenance to all.  He guides and trains all under the shadow of his bounty.  We must follow the example God himself gives us, and do away with all these differences and quarrels.  Praise be to God! the signs of friendship are appearing, and a proof of this is that today I-an Easterner-in the London of the West have received extreme kindness, regard, and love, and I am deeply thankful and happy.  I shall never forget this time I have spent with you.  I leave you with extreme regret, and with prayers for you, that all the beauty of the Kingdom may be yours.


II:13, 4 November 1911
page 6
The work in California
"The future of California, whether in regard to its material affairs or spiritual affairs, is very important.  It is my hope that the people of California may become the sons and daughters of the Kingdom and be the means of promoting the religion of God.
"Regarding the Exposition of 1915 which will be inaugurated in San Francisco in America:  From now undoubtedly the Bahá'ís must arrange and prepare ways and means so that a great number of them may be present on that occasion."-'Abdu'l-Bahá.
...
Helen S. Goodall


II:14, 23 November 1911
page 3
With 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Paris
Mary Hanford Ford
To one who has visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his prison home at 'Akká, the delight of seeing him in the western world is almost indescribable.  I was not so fortunate as to be with him in London, but I had the good fortune to arrive in Paris shortly after he reached that city, and for two weeks I was able to see him every morning.
He rented his own apartment in Paris, and a little fair-haired, pleasant-faced French maid presided over its domestic functions and answered the bell.
"This is my home and the home of my friends," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and every one was admitted here without question, no matter to what cult or nationality he belonged, no matter how shabby were his clothes.  A background of Persian men was always present, for all the Persians in Paris apparently camped in the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá during his stay there, but besides the Persians there were French, Germans, English, Hindus, and a large sprinkling of Americans, among whom the tall figures of Mr Woodcock and Mr Mills were always noticeable.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, of course, paid all his own expenses in Paris, and the apartment he rented was a commodious one provided with the best modern conveniences, and containing a great drawing room which could easily accommodate from seventy-five to a hundred people.
Here the interested ones gathered every morning between ten and twelve, though it was whispered that even before dawn eager seekers were admitted to private interviews with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and naturally those who did not wish to be seen entering his house came in the early hours.
'Abdu'l-Bahá speaks only the Oriental tongues, but he understands all that is said in any language, and in Paris his wonderful words were translated by M. Dreyfus into especially perfect French.  The little company assembled at No. 4 Avenue de Camoens never knew exactly at what time the eagerly expected one would appear.  Sometimes he came joyfully, waving a good morning to all, or best of all, greeting each one with a warm hand clasp.  At other times, when there had been bad news from the seat of war in Tripoli, he would enter with sadness written upon his eloquent countenance, and it was on such occasions that he gave the two little talks on war that I send you.
Sometimes his address was very short, but always his presence was so stimulating that no one had the slightest consciousness of disappointment when he arose and left the room.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is like a great magnet drawing together the noblest forces of nations and individuals.  He is purely synthetic, not analytic, and his cohering power is enormous-he focalizes the temperament of every listener.  The stimulus of his presence in this way is something quite indescribable; it must be experienced to be comprehended.  But if one did not understand Persian or French, the electric contact with 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his marvellous and poetic utterance would be sufficient to transform phlegmatic materialism into spiritual possibility.
The effect of this electric presence was that of clear and prodigious thinking which swept away like cobwebs all trivialities of sect and disunion, and pierced through to the divine harmonies which unite one to God and his neighbour.  Every one who listened to 'Abdu'l-Bahá must have realized that this was no sectarian founder of a cult.  This was a spiritually endowed messenger whose message touched
page 4
all mankind, who came out of his prison to remind men of the mighty lessons God has spoken to lift us out of barbarism and cruelty, from war to peace, and that in this day we must follow even the letter of these heavenly lessons.
So he spoke always of peace, always of conduct, giving to his own followers definitions of their mission which were very positive, and must have sounded a trifle strange to some who perhaps may have retained a slightly sectarian bias, even under the inspiration of this divinely powered Prophet of Unity.
"You are a society banded together for the increase of friendship among nations and races, and of brotherhood among men," he said one day, waving his hand toward the circle before him, and constantly he adjured us to realize the privilege that was ours in being first to receive the "Breeze of God" which must always rise in the East and blow towards the West, and which is now floating again from that wonderful Orient into the faces of the expectant Occident.
It was exceedingly interesting to watch the faces of those who came each morning to listen to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and observe the gradual but evident change of thought which took place in them so that hard lines gave way before invading gentleness and light irradiated countenances and eyes which previously had considered only material difficulties.  I have not time to recall the countless instances of this sort.  They were, of course, always intensified by an interview with 'Abdu'l-Bahá himself.  Sometimes people stayed with him three minutes, sometimes half an hour, for there were many waiting to speak with him.  The time of the interview did not matter much and I never shall forget a dear little friend who is cashier of a big business house in Paris.  She is devoutly unselfish, and eager only to do her utmost for every one.  She had a three minute interview.  As she entered, 'Abdu'l-Bahá advanced toward her with his hands outstretched.
"Ah, you are aflame!  You are alive!" he cried.  "How happy I am when people come to me who are alive not dead!"
Then he took her hands and said to her just the tender and inspiring words she needed, assuring her that God would always guide her.  She was only in his room three minutes, but she came out with a look upon her face I shall never forget.  Each day I was in Paris I went Into the big shop where she was cashier, and the lovely look was still upon her face.  I am sure it will never leave her.
I send you the striking passages from some of the talks given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá while I was in Paris.  My versions are, of course, not complete or perfect.  Mírzá Asadu'lláh, who was present, carefully took down 'Abdu'l-Bahá's words in Persian, and they will no doubt be translated and given us later.  My own translations are merely the result of notes taken at the time and are necessarily incomplete.  But certain significant words were of great moment and these I always preserved.
The two points 'Abdu'l-Bahá seemed desirous of impressing upon his hearers especially were the fact that man has freed himself from the trammels of material conditions through the use of his spiritual gifts, and that possessing this power he should apply it for good, for the establishing of a perfect civilization, the abolition of cruelty and injustice, and the institution of love as the absolute rule.
To attain this he insisted it is only necessary to think right, and again and again, in various modifications he repeated the wonderful words:  "While they make war, you think peace; while they create destruction, you think construction; while they are guilty of cruelty, you think tenderness!"
Talk on the battle of Benghazi
I am not happy this morning, I am full of sadness.  The news which the paper brought us was such as must fill one with anguish.
Animals fight, and when they fight it is for a cause, an end to be gained.
page 5
Men are fighting now, for what?  For the ground, our sepulchre, our tomb, our cemetery!
The earth is the first and lowest of terrestrial things created by the Divine Will-and it is our tomb, our sepulchre, our cemetery; our death, not our life and these men are fighting not for liberty or an ideal, but for ground, for the place of death not life, for a sepulchre, a tomb, a cemetery!
God has never forgotten the world, and no matter how black have been its conditions, there have always been societies established for the cherishing of love and equality and fraternity.
You are a people banded together to increase friendship among nations and races and brotherhood among men.  So now, while these men are creating death, you think life, while they are guilty of cruelty, you think tenderness, while they make destruction, you think construction, while they create war, you think peace.
We must hope, we must not despair.  We must look forward to the time when war and dissension will disappear, when love and unity will reign, and the light of God will shine upon all banners and into all hearts, and unite them to one another and to Him.
The earth is God's
There has been another battle today and much blood has been shed.  The poor have given their lives as a sacrifice to the greed of others.  Men are fighting for the earth-for land-and it belongs to no one but God.  Kings have fought for it from Charlemagne to Napoleon I, yet they had no right to it.  One fought wrongfully to wrest it from another who wrongfully possessed it.  All people are merely tenants of God upon the land, yet nevertheless empires have disappeared in the struggle for its possession, and again men are shedding blood for the ownership of mere land.
While man might become a centre for good, for amity, he fights like ferocious beasts for the right to land.
God wishes man to establish just equality, not to transgress laws, to help one another and live together in love.  Do what God asks, be the cause of unity and peace-wipe out the horrors of war and hatred!
Be ye capable of all good, eager to work for the cause of unity and peace, sacrificing all for this.  Be eager to suffer for such an end.  Forget yourself, forget personal danger, personal evil and inconvenience.  Have no fear of evil to yourself in the great cause of unity and peace.  Be dissolved in love, so that you may lose consciousness of everything except the good of all.
Love
I met a man this morning who belongs to the sect of Buddhists and I said to him, "What is your message?"  He replied "l'Amour, Love!"  I said, "Yes, but what besides that?"  He repeated, "Love, that is all, that is the only message."
But the word Love is not a message; the word Love indicates an infinite thing, and how shall we bring an infinite thing into relation with humanity which is finite?
There are in reality many kinds of love, and each in itself is infinite and finite.  There is the love of country, or the patriotic love, there is the family love, there is the love of friendship, the love of man and woman-each one is finite and limited.  There is only one love which is infinite and unlimited and divine, and that is the love which comes with the Breath of the Holy Spirit-the Love of God-which breaks all barriers and sweeps all before it.
Animals are completely subject to nature, they are its slaves.  They live and
page 6
die in the places in which they are born, they are the victims of storm and flood, they are hemmed in by desert, forest, by the great rivers and the sea.
But man has conquered nature, and is free.  He is no longer the slave of the physical world, he dominates it and is free.  He compels the physical world to do his will.  He crosses wide spaces, sails over the ocean, and is beginning to fly through the air.  He is in all things a freed being, and can give his commands to that nature in the midst of which he was born.
So man who is freed from material things and dominates nature, should learn to render his love also unlimited and divine.  He should open his soul to the Breeze of God, that it may blow through him and break down all barriers.
So, if you love, endeavour to love divinely.  If you love your country, love it not with the narrow feeling that it must be loved because it is yours alone, but with the greater consciousness that your home is a part of the universe.  If you love brother or comrade or wife, love each one as a part of God, and not with the narrow sense of possession which renders the love selfish and exclusive.  Then the Breeze of God blowing constantly through your love will purify it and make it divine so that the Breath of the Holy Spirit will enter into your being and unite you to God.
But do not seek the honours and loves of this world, seek rather God and His love, and then the Honours and Loves which belong to Him will be yours.  All the glory of the heavens is his, all the beauty of the flowers, the scent of the roses and the colours of the sunset.  But more than this the beauty of the soul is His, so that when you look long upon His beauty, it takes many forms and reappears in your consciousness in many figures.  But all other beauty fades and disappears, all other honour but His becomes insignificant, all other love but His is undesirable.
Wisdom
The greatest treasure of man is wisdom.  Through this he is lifted into great power, through this he becomes the mirror of Divine Love.  He comprehends the past; he possesses the future.  In all this man is infinitely superior to the rest of creation.  The sun which brings life to the vegetable world, and gives it bloom and fragrance is, nevertheless, in spite of all its splendour, limited.  It cannot go beyond the law which controls it, which co-ordinates its movement.
In the animal world it is the same.  The elephant with all his strength and intelligence is bound by the law of his existence.  He cannot go beyond this law or control it.  With the beautiful birds which fly through the air in such seeming freedom, it is the same.  They are bound by the law of their existence.
Man alone is free, man alone controls the environment which surrounds him, he alone makes nature his slave.  Though he is of the animal world and cannot naturally live in the water, he has conquered the ocean, and if he wills may pass his life upon the bosom of the sea.
Though limited by space so that under ordinary circumstances he can only hear speech within a certain area, he has captured the word and can send it as far as he will through the marvellous agency of electricity, which he has made his own.
So also he has conquered space by means of photography, and can send pictures where he will, of all that he sees.  He dominates the nature which enslaves all else, and has made it his obedient servant.
It is a pity that with this dominance and power which have become his, man has not willed to render perfect the civilization of all the world.  But he does not.  If he chose he could create a Paradise upon the earth, but instead of peace he makes war, instead of love he sows cruelty, instead of harmony he creates discord.
page 7
I shall pray for you that you may be impelled to use the power that is given you for divine purposes, that you may be the source of concord between individuals, that instead of war you may create peace, instead of cruelty you will create love, instead of discord you will make harmony.
The Holy Spirit
The Divine Reality is far removed from man.  It is absolutely remote and independent in its essence-beyond the comprehension of man-abstract, limitless and impersonal.
Man is limited, weak, fearful, poverty-stricken and helpless.  The Divine Reality represents the Power Absolute, capacity for all things, fulfilment for all the needs of man.
The Divine Reality is to man what the sun is to the earth.  The sun is life, radiance, heat, energy, power.  The earth is dead, inert, helpless, incapable of initiative or change.  It is poor, cold, and without resources.
The sun in its remoteness could never reach the earth, and the earth, wretched indifferent clod, could never attain to the glory and splendour of the sun.  In order that one may gain the other, that life and fragrance may come to the helpless earth floating alone in dim space, there must be an intermediary.  In some way the life-giving power of the radiant sun must be brought to the sodden earth, and this becomes possible through the media of light and heat.  Through their means the glory of the distant luminary is transmitted to the dark ball of earth, and instantly it becomes the home of fragrance and blooming life.  The glory of the magnificent source of light touches our dim planet and banishes death and darkness.
As there must be an intermediary to transmit to earth the life-giving power of the sun, so there must be an intermediary to bring God to man, and this is found through the ever-present efficacy of the Holy Spirit.  As the media of light and heat carry fragrance and bloom to the earth, so the intermediary of the Holy Spirit brings to man warmth, perfection and inspiration.
The wonder-working rays of the radiant sun fall upon the dull earth, carrying there richness and glory.  The earth alone is but a senseless clod; touched by the sun it becomes life, energy, budding and blossoming wealth.
So the Holy Spirit touches the heart of man and wakens him to eternal life.  Like the sun to earth it brings to man warmth, energy and perfection.  It gives him all possibilities.  The cause of life widens before his eyes, eternity opens to him, and becomes his, he no longer knows fear, for the wealth of God is his, and every moment is his inviolable possession.  Limitations disappear, and as he becomes more and more sensitive to the teaching of the Holy Spirit, all things are his own.
Without the sun the earth is only the habitation of death, and would remain forever in its frozen clasp, were it not for the intermediary of light and heat stirring its inert mass and transforming into budding energy and accomplishment all its repellent hardness.
So without the intermediary of the Holy Spirit man would remain dull, helpless and deprived of all attainment.  But touched by that Divine Elixir he becomes tender, loving, responsive, and capable of every perfection of life.
The treasure
Each one has in his environment a treasure.  Let him seek that treasure eagerly, search for it with patience.  Then when he has found it, there is another treasure still to be discovered in the same place for which he must also search.
page 14
He must dig as the miner digs in his mine, to its uttermost depths, eager to seek, seek, for the jewel that is hidden there in the darkness.
It is the natural law of human life that man should seek thus for the best that is about him.  Thus his vital force expands, and man becomes greater in his effort.  He is thus most fully capable of the union with God which may be his.
The Orient is the germinating place for the soul.  It is here that the Breeze of God is felt.  Here Moses' Law was given, here Christ's Word was spoken, here Muhammad's banner was flung to the air.
The Occident on the contrary is the place of expansion.  The West applies and solidifies that which the East suggests.  It gives physical form and shape to the ideals of the East.  But the Breeze of God does not blow there.  It must be engendered in the East.  Yet the Word of Christ has been developed in the West.  It was the Occident which unfolded the teaching of Christ into a great civilization, which shows how wonderful was the Word of Christ, and how wonderful is the West.
page 15
But now the Breeze of God is no longer felt in the West.  Its power is stilled, while in the East it is again forceful, fragrant, alive.  Once more the West must receive the Breeze of God from the East.  It cannot be stayed or hindered, it will blow from the East to the West; but it will be most beautiful if you will be the avenue though which it comes.  If you are not that avenue, it will seek another channel, but blessed will be your privilege if through you it wins its way into the hearts of the West, rousing into fragrant life all the spiritual bloom and richness of that great country, and bringing new life to the world.
I will pray that it may be so.


II:14, 23 November 1911
page 8
Editorial
We are happy in presenting a recent portrait of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in this issue of the Star of the West.  As is generally known, for many years, he did not permit a photograph of himself to be made, although reproductions of one taken when he was a young man, had a limited circulation among the friends some years ago.  In answer to a communication regarding it, 'Abdu'l-Bahá expressed his wish, which we quote herewith, believing it will be read with interest at this time:  "Verily thou hast seen the physical picture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá printed by the rays of the phenomenal sun (the photograph) and thine eyes became overflowing with tears.  Beg thou of God that Re may show thee his ('Abdu'l-Bahá's) spiritual picture printed by the rays shining from the Merciful Kingdom.  Then the attraction of God shall overtake thee, and make thee as a spark of fire aflame with the love of God."


II:14, 23 November 1911
page 9
With 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Switzerland
Letter from Miss Juliet Thompson [extracts]
page 10
'Abdu'l-Bahá not being very much occupied during those days, we were with him constantly, sailing on the lake or driving through the mountain roads with him.  The day of my arrival one of the Persian brothers, returning from a drive with him, told me this story:
'Abdu'l-Bahá, he said, to relieve the horses in a steep climb had gotten out of the carriage and walked.  They passed through a village.  The villagers clustered around him.  They bared their heads and called him "Father".  One woman ran into her house and brought out some country bread and cheese.  "Accept this, dear Father," she said.  (Blessed are the pure in heart!)
One drive I shall never forget.  It was a drive through scenes of rare beauty, roads winding among great hills that were as steps to the near Alps.  Sitting opposite 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the carriage, I saw him in a way I should like to leave to the future-were it possible for me to express it!-his powerful head vividly defined against the most sublime of backgrounds; for those near mountains of the Alps, their heads hid in rolling clouds, ware his background-perfect symbol of mystery!
As an artist I should like to say to those who have not seen 'Abdu'l-Bahá that his head is the strongest and most nobly sculptured that it is possible to conceive.
One more touch I must give-a few words overheard in passing two ladies:
"He has so kind, so simple an air," said one.
"Yes," replied the other, "and eyes of fire!"
We passed fertile hills, covered with vines and corn-or fruit trees; we passed foaming mountain torrents; we passed little villages, and always the background of these verdant scenes was the panorama of the lonely Alps, their heads wreathed with clouds.  And nothing escaped his eyes.  Never shall I forget his keen, sympathetic, eager, delighted observation-his tender interest in all human traces-his joy in the beautiful.  He particularly seemed to enjoy the gentle hillsides-the green-the signs of verdure (think of his life spent in arid, stony 'Akká!).  Whenever he passed a village-a human habitation-we saw his heart went out to it-though how much that heart went out these hearts could not know!  We never passed a church, its spire delicately rising among the hills, but that he pointed it out to us.  Once in the drive we saw a little village built on a barren height.  This seemed to concern-even to trouble him greatly, and he referred several times to it.  "How cold it must be for them there in winter!" he said, and told us of just such a village in Persia where the people in winter moved down to the valley.
Once he broke a silence thus:  "There was no one in the world who loved trees and water and the country so much as Bahá'u'lláh!"
We were too moved to answer and again there was silence.  And in that silence some realization came to me of the sacrifice of these Holy Ones, who accept with joy all privation, all suffering to lead us in the way of freedom-to imbue mankind with that love which will make us brothers-to purify, then unite the hearts.  How great must be their love for us-how their hearts must bleed over us-that they can joyously court such suffering!  A great enough love indeed to enkindle the whole world from one heart!  How else save "with heart and life" could we respond to such love?  One day he said to me:  "The child does not realize the love of the parent, but when it becomes mature, it knows."  "Can the creature," I asked, "ever realize the love of the Creator?  "Yes, if not in this world, then in the next-as a sleeping one awakens."
To turn to the day of our drive.  We came to a great waterfall,-a sparkling, snowy torrent, dashing down a black precipice.  He had us stop the carriage, and
page 11
walking to a spot at a little distance from us, on the very edge of the embankment, he watched for a long time in silence that immaculate outpouring.  I can still see the figure of quiet power-the face of luminous purity-the Perfect Man-intent upon that manifestation of the power and purity of Nature.
Nature then had an added glory to me.  I realized as never before her beauty and significance.  That great Hidden Word recurred to me:  "All things in the heavens and the earth have I ordained for thee except the hearts which I have appointed as the place for the descent of the manifestation of My beauty and glory."  I saw Nature not only as a book of divine allegories, but fascinating for her own sake-for the sake of her loveliness-and her secrets, which in this day when "the earth is revealing her news" she is giving up ever more freely to man.  Watching 'Abdu'l-Bahá as he communed with the bounty of Nature, I felt deeply the spiritual value of the arts and sciences.  And ever since that drive-that little journey through country and town with the one of the perfect understanding and sympathy, this world has been God's world to me.  I have understood better the subtleties of detachment-have seen where the emphasis should be placed.  As one of our sisters, who also saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá this summer, said very beautifully on her return:  "In himself, he uplifts humanity into the spiritual station."  Does not this clothe the whole of humanity, comprising the world of nature, with a new dignity, and disclose boundless possibilities?
The simplicity of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, his normality, give one the real clue to the spiritual life.  His teaching is a Religion of Joy-of "expansion and fulfilment" on every plane-not of deprivation and asceticism.  And this leads me to touch on another most beautiful attribute of his.  We know well that his frequent injunction is, "Be happy!"  Perhaps his most frequent question is:  "Are you happy?"-and his own abundance of perfect happiness, of undimmed joy, is ever overflowing in the most delicious humour-the most irresistible humour that ever won a heart.  Religion in the past took on an aspect of fear.  This 'Abdu'l-Bahá smiles away, teaching us the perfect repose and joy of the spirit's confidence in God as Love-the "radiant acquiescence" in Divine Guidance.
As we drove away from the waterfall, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, smiling, to me:  "If I come to America, will you invite me to see such waterfalls?"  "Does your coming," I smiled in return, "depend on my invitation?"  "My invitation to America," was the reply, "will be the unity of the believers."
We drove to an old inn in a cleft between two mountains, and sitting in the open porch at a rough table, had the simplest of country refreshment.  Just as we were entering the inn a little group of peasant children, bunches of violets in their hands to sell, pressed around 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  They did not seem to see the rest of us.  I can still see the dull little peasant faces raised wonderingly, to that face-the out-stretched hands full of violets.  He took from his pocket a handful of francs and gave to them abundantly.  How he gives-gives-gives!  His love seems never content with giving.  Tirelessly he gives of his spirit and heart-like a tender father he gives of material things-little keepsakes, or, in lovely symbol, flowers.
In the future I am sure stories will abound in that countryside of the sojourn there of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Then those little peasants, looking back to that moment of wonder at the sublimity of a face, will muse:  "Was it he?  Did we see him?  It must have been he!"
I should like to speak here of something which was of unparalleled beauty to me:  His power of attraction for the children.  It was moving indeed to see their upward glances when he passed or stood near them, and the looks of love which he bent, as he lingeringly fondled the little heads, on those pure baby souls, so fresh from their Creator!  Not that they could know, but in their innocence they felt.  If only all might remember!
page 12
To return to the drive.  As we passed a little church in Thonon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá expressed a wish to attend it on Sunday.  And this leads me to another, most vital subject:  His attitude of perfect accord with the churches, demonstrated in St John's and in the City Temple in London, where he freely gave the Message of Unity.
That these churches should have opened their doors for our Message is indeed beautiful, and a proof of two things:  Of the freedom and illumination of the men who serve as their ministers, and of the wisdom of the London Bahá'ís.  For it was the Bahá'ís who took the first step by connecting themselves with these two churches, some having pews and working in the City Temple and some in St John's church.  Thus, by demonstrating clearly, through sympathetic action, our oneness with the Christian world, they have been instruments to open these churches to the benediction of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  And I, having witnessed this beautiful demonstration and the result of it, feel that we cannot live too close to the Christians.
But not only do the London Bahá'ís make connection-or rather, manifest oneness with the Christian world, but with all progressive thought and activity, so that, again through their instrumentality, we find the Universal Races Congress opened to the presentation of our Message, The Christian Commonwealth and the Theosophical Society of Bristol sending cables of greeting to 'Abdu'l-Bahá on his arrival in Europe, and later becoming firm friends; the Theosophical Society in London, the Brahma Sohmaj Centre, the Settlements, more centres than I can name, reverently welcoming him, while many distinguished individuals have sought his wisdom, to receive the unequalled blessing.
This wonderful harvest has been the result of diligent and wise seed-sowing in the world of thinkers and workers.  While I was in Thonon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to a little group of us:  "This is the time for sowing the seed.  The most important thing now is to spread the Cause of God.  When harvest time comes, think how sad it will be if there is nothing to reap!"
So again I repeat I feel that we cannot be too active now.
The subject of our real oneness with all that is true and good in every progressive movement reminds me of a very beautiful message which I read while in London from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a socialist.  Socialism, he said, was one of the leaves on the Tree of Life.  Then he called this soul to come into the shade of the Tree of Life that he might partake of all its fruits.
At luncheon one day in Thonon we had a distinguished visitor who asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá about our economic questions.  He said there were many who felt that material problems should be solved first; that, in order to level the way for the spiritual advance, we should first better social conditions, and he spoke of a friend who felt this so strongly that, though connected with the church, he was making it his life-work.
"Such people," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "are doing the work of true religion."
Then he went on to say that a new order of things must come but it must have a solid foundation, and that no foundation was solid save religion, which was the Love of God.  When this unshakeable basis of the Love of God was established in the world, then inevitably would the structure of a new social justice rise, and a new individual love and justice.
Before I close I must tell you the story of one day.  We were to go to Vevey that day by boat, and in a little group of eight, we accompanied 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the landing.  It was in the freshness of early morning.  The fishermen had hung out their nets in the sun.  The dew was on the lilies in the grove in the shade of which we waited for the boat.  Suddenly the Master left us to stray off alone.  When we saw him next he was walking in the distance on the very edge of the lake, beyond that golden film of fishnets.  It was then that the "veils of plurality were rent" for me-and I saw the essential oneness of all the Holy Messengers-the One Flame in many lamps.
page 13
The morning was misty, the veiled lake and mountains were like the world of dream.  We gathered around him in the boat while he sat in our midst, the embodiment of command, yet of holiest sweetness; a combination of utter evanescence and supreme power impossible to convey in words.  Suddenly he broke a silence by saying:
"Others are going from an immortal to a mortal kingdom, but the Bahá'ís are journeying in the Ark of the Covenant from a mortal to an immortal world.
"The Jews had turned towards an immortal kingdom, but when they looked backward to mortal things they became dispersed.
"Again Christ led men on to an Immortal Kingdom; therefore their signs remained.
"God be praised for now you are on a Ship bearing you to Immortal Worlds.  Day by day your signs will become clearer."
Could I only make clear to you that picture, the bow of our boat cleaving the mists, till we seemed to be actually navigating the ether; could I only make clear the figure sitting in our midst, I know you would feel there was no "looking backward" for those who had seen that journey so symbolized.
That night, when I sat for the last time at the table of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, our dear sisters, Elizabeth Stewart and Lilian Rappes on their way to a life of consecration in Persia, were with us.
Breaking a revealing silence, with that speech which uplifts the soul in joy indescribable, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"To the refreshing water of the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh come many and various birds from many lands and at these cooling streams slake their thirst.
"When the Lamp is ignited the butterflies flutter around the Light."
"May we," said Lilian Kappes, "be ready to singe our wings at that Light."
"Good!" said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "I am very much pleased with your answer!"
Juliet Thompson


II:14, 23 November 1911
page 15
News notes from Paris
On Sunday, 29 October, a dinner, followed by a meeting, was given to 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the home of Madame Gabriel Sacy.  It was distinctly a French reunion and 'Abdu'l-Bahá seemed pleased of the fact.  On entering he took the photograph of Monsieur Gabriel Sacy, kissed it and said:  "This home is as my own."
Among his words during the dinner were these:
"I am from a far away country and here in Paris, at your table, I find in union, love and happiness, Persians, Arabs, Turks and French, which proves that we are of one race and that all men are brothers.  The God of Persia is the God of France, of Turkey, of Italy, etc.  He is One and the same, so in loving Him we are united.  Paris is the universal centre of culture and learning, of science and the arts.  She must also be the centre of spirituality.  There are all sorts of fruits; some can only ripen in a cold climate; others need the warmth and others yet the tropical sun.  So it is with Paris.  The greatest efforts are necessary that she may blossom and bear fruit."
About sixty people came to the meeting after dinner.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke for nearly an hour, interpreted into French by Mírzá 'Azizu'lláh Khán.  Every one was impressed with his beautiful personality and his words of love, demanding of all to unite their efforts in asking of God the unity of mankind, universal peace and love.
"We must not fear difficulties and labour.  They lead us to the noblest end.  We must resist the whole world, for the world wants war; unite our efforts and with divine love we will succeed."
'Abdu'l-Bahá gave his first public conference in Paris, as guest of the "Alliance Spiritualiste", on 9 November.  This Society, which has for its aim the encouragement and development of spirituality, constitutes a neutral and impersonal territory of study for all creeds and schools of spiritual thought.  There could not have been a more appropriate setting for the exposition of the principles of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh.  The "Salle de l'Athénée Saint-Germain" was crowded to the doors by an interested and attentive public.  Mme J. Beauchamps, the President of the Society, opened the meeting and in a few sincere words welcomed 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the name of the "Alliance Spiritualiste".  A short address was delivered by Monsieur Le Leu, General Secretary, who dwelt upon the beauties of the Bahá'í Revelation, the most purely spiritual movement of all times, and upon the role it was to play in the future.  Finally 'Abdu'l-Bahá arose and in the profound silence began to expose the principles of the Bahá'í Revelation with a language coloured and imaginative and touchingly human.  He spoke at length and with impressive, clearness and repeated several times his contentment at finding himself in the midst of so large a gathering, whose unity of sentiment and spirituality were forcibly apparent.  He finished by chanting a prayer for all those present.  The reunion was terminated by an admirable appreciation of the Bahá'í Revelation, on the part of Monsieur Jounet, and on leaving the hall one felt that the afternoon had been a complete success.
Madame d'Ange d'Astre


II:15, 12 December 1911
page 3
Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Mr Albert Smiley
Through Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb to his honour, Mr Albert Smiley, the founder of the Lake Mohonk Conference on International Arbitration.  May God assist him!
HE IS GOD!
O thou great and respected personage!
The details of the Conference of Peace and Arbitration which is organized under your presidency has been read in the papers of the East and the West and the utmost joy and fragrance was produced; that, praise be to God, in the continent of America, under the presidency of a glorious personage, the Conference of International Peace is convened.  Today in the world of existence there is no more important and greater cause than this for it is conducive to the promotion of happiness in the commonwealth of humanity and is the cause of tranquillity of all the nations and countries and the prosperity of the individuals of the human world.  What cause is greater than this!  It is evident that it has the utmost importance, nay, rather, it will be the cause of the illumination of the East and the West and the reason for the manifestation of the Countenance and the Face of God in the world of humanity and the appearance of infinite affections.  Therefore, although this longing one has no acquaintance with your honour, but this great cause and this eminent effort of yours became the cause of my having infinite love for you while absent.  Consequently I am engaged in writing you this epistle.
The matter of international peace was instituted by His Highness, Bahá'u'lláh, sixty years ago in Persia iii the year of AD 1851:  From that time innumerable epistles and tablets were spread first in Persia and then in other parts of the world, until about fifty years ago He clearly stated this matter of universal peace in the Book of Aqdas and has commanded all the Bahá'ís to serve faithfully with heart and soul in this great cause, give up their possessions and wealth for it and sacrifice their lives in case of necessity.  He has taught them to spread the unity of nations and religions and proclaim in all the regions of the world the oneness of the kingdom of humanity.  There are different religions in Persia, such as Muslims, Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, and different sects.  Through the power of Bahá'u'lláh such affection and love is produced among these various religions that now they are associating with each other with the utmost unity and concord like unto fathers, sons, brothers, mothers and daughters.  Whenever they gather in a meeting if a stranger enters in that gathering he is astonished by the love and affection that they manifest.  There, is not the slightest
page 4
sign of difference and separation.  Some of the tablets of Bahá'u'lláh concerning this matter are translated in America.  Seek, perchance you may find them, then you shall realize what a permanent structure Bahá'u'lláh has raised in this world of existence, the result of which will be the oneness of all humanity.  Likewise, innumerable tablets have been written with the pen of this longing one.  Ask for them, too; perhaps you may find their translations in America.
To be brief, as His Highness Bahá'u'lláh in this period of man has planted a fruitful tree in the garden of the oneness of the human race, and as your honour is engaged in reality to irrigate this garden, therefore I found it necessary to express my gratitude and happiness to you, so that your good name may be spread not only in Persia but throughout all Oriental countries and the people of the East may remember your name with great respect.  I hope that the principles of international peace and universal reconciliation may be established firmly among the individual members of humanity and its fragrance may be spread throughout all the regions.
I beg of you to accept the expressions of my highest consideration.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 August 1911.
Mr C. C. Philips
Through Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, to his honour Mr C. C. Philips, the Secretary of the Mohonk Conference on' International Arbitration.
HE IS GOD!
O thou perfect man!
The Conference on International Arbitration and Peace is the greatest results of this great age.  This brilliant century has no likeness and similitude in the history of man.  From every standpoint it is distinguished above all other centuries.  It is specialized with such excellencies that the shining star of the heavenly confirmations shall gleam from the horizon of this century upon all the future cycles and periods.  One of the most extraordinary events of this time, which indeed is a miracle, is the founding of the oneness of this realm of humanity and its essential branches, such as Universal Peace and the unity of the different nations, in this arena of existence.
Persia was at one time the centre of religious difference, antagonism and oppression, to such an extent that pen is unable to describe.  The adherents of different nations and religions considered it their religious duty to shed the blood of their opponents; they pillaged and ransacked each others property and did not fall short of oppressing their own flesh and blood.  The hatred between the various religions attained to such a height that they considered each other unclean.  Should a Jew enter a Muslim home, he would be made to sit upon the ground; if he drank water from a cup, that cup was destroyed or washed again and again; for the Jew was considered unclean.  Such was the hatred and rancour among the different religions and nations in Persia.
page 5
About sixty years ago His Highness Bahá'u'lláh through the Heavenly Power proclaimed the oneness of the Kingdom of man in that country and addressing the concourse of humanity said:  "O ye people!  Ye are all the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch!"
About fifty years ago in the Book of Aqdas, He commanded the people to establish the Universal Peace and summoned all the nations to the Divine Banquet of International Arbitration so that the questions of boundaries, of national honour and property, and of vital interests between nations might be decided by an arbitral court of justice; and that no nation would dare to refuse to abide by their decisions.  If any quarrel arise between two nations it must be adjudicated by this international court and be arbitrated and decided upon like the judgement rendered by the judge between individuals.  If at any time any nation dares to break such a treaty all the other nations must arise to put down this rebellion.
Bahá'u'lláh has clearly stated that this Universal Peace is the cause of the tranquillity of the realm of creation.  Now as the International Conference on Arbitration is organized in America and as this problem is a branch which will ultimately bring about the unity of the world, therefore we remember you with the utmost respect, that praise be to God you have arisen to perform such a universal service.  God willing, that Conference will progress day by day and will bring about all-embracing results and will establish reconciliation and universal love between the different nations, races and peoples of this world.
I beg of you to accept the expressions of my highest consideration.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 22 August 1911.
Mrs Ella Goodall Cooper
Through his honour Mírzá Ahmad and Mírzá Munír, to the maid-servant of God, Mrs Ella Goodall Cooper.
Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD.
O thou who art attracted to the Kingdom of God!
Thy detailed letter was received.  Its perusal produced the utmost happiness, for it evidenced the fact that thou hast attained to the knowledge of the reality of tests; that tests endured in the path of God are conducive to confirmation; nay, rather, they are heavenly powers and the bounties of the Realm of Might.  But to weak believers tests are trials and examination, for, on account of the weakness of their faith and assurance they fall into difficulties and vicissitudes.
However, to those souls who are firm and steadfast, tests are the greatest favours.  Consider thou that at the time of an examination in sciences and arts, the dull and lazy pupil finds himself in calamity.  But to the intelligent and sagacious student examination in learning produces honour and infinite
page 6
happiness.  Alloyed gold, subjected to the fire, portrays its baseness, while the intensity of the flame enhances the beauty of pure gold.  Therefore, tests to the weak souls are calamity and to the veiled ones the cause of their disgrace and humiliation.  The point is this, that in the path of Truth every difficulty is made plain and every trial is the matchless bounty.  Therefore, the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful must not relax during trial and no disaster must deter their service in the Cause of God. ...
You have written that upon your return you have compiled whatever you saw and heard (at 'Akká) and you have received the invisible assistance, that the teachings, which were like invisible seeds, have sprung to life and verdancy, spreading branches and leaves and producing blossoms and fruit.  Indeed what you have written is true.
His honour Mr Chase is a blessed soul, good and pure.  He is engaged in the service of the Cause and is a herald of the True One.  Ere long he will be assisted with great confirmation.
You have asked regarding the influence of evil spirits.  Evil spirits are deprived of Eternal Life.  How, then, can they exercise any influence?  But as Eternal Life is ordained for holy spirits, therefore their influence exists in all the divine worlds.
At the time you were here, this question was accordingly answered, that after the ascension of the godly souls, great influence and wide-spreading bounties are destined for them, and all encircling signs in the seen and unseen are decreed for them.
When the souls leave the bodies they do not assume elemental bodies.  Whatever man thinks regarding this is but his own imagination.
When man desires help and communication from holy souls, he puts himself in a condition of self-unconsciousness and becomes submerged in a sea of meditation; then a spiritual state, which is sanctified from matter and all material things, becomes visible and apparent to him.  Then he thinks he beholds a form.  Its appearance is like unto a vision.
Man beholds in the world of vision various images, communicates with.  them and receives benefits, and in that world of vision he thinks they are physical temples and material bodies, while they are purely immaterial.
Briefly, the reality of the soul is sanctified and purified above matter and material things, but, like unto the world of vision, it manifests itself in these material forms and visages.  Likewise in the psychic condition, one beholds the spirits like unto the physical forms and visages.
To be brief, the holy souls have great influence and intense effect, and their influence and continuity do not depend upon physical existence and elemental composition.
Ponder ye, that during sleep the human body and the five physical senses, viz., sight, smell, taste, hearing and touch are passive, i.e., all physical forces are inactive.  Notwithstanding this, human reality has spiritual life and the
page 7
spiritual powers are penetrative, and wonderful disclosures are made in both the East and the West, and perchance one may discover some matters, which, after a long time, may become apparent in the physical world.  Therefore it has become evident that the continuity and influence of the human reality does not depend upon the physical instrumentality; nay, rather, the physical body is an instrument over which the human spirit spreads a luminosity.  It is like unto the sun, which shining upon the mirror, causes its brilliancy, and when the reflection is withdrawn from the mirror, it becomes dark.  Likewise, when the luminosity of the human spirit is withdrawn from the body, that instrument becomes useless.
To be brief:  Humanity consists of the spiritual reality, and that reality is penetrative in all things and it is that reality which discovers the invisible mysteries, and through that reality all sciences, arts and inventions become known and manifest.  Whatever thou beholdest of the works of man is but a faint ray of that reality.  It encircles all things and comprehends all things.
Reflect thou, that all these existent sciences, crafts, industries and arts were at one time in the world of invisibility, unknown and unconcealed mysteries.  As the spirit of man environs all things, therefore he has discovered them and brought them from the unknown world into the arena of manifestation.  Therefore it is evident and established that the human spirit is the discoverer of things, the seer of things and the comprehender of things.
But regarding the progress of the spirit in the world of the Kingdom after its ascension, it is wholly beyond space and time, and developments, after leaving this body, are spiritual and not terrestrial.  It is like unto the progress of the child from the world of the foetus to the world of maturity and intelligence, from the world of ignorance to the world of knowledge, from the station of imperfection to the pinnacle of perfection.
As Divine Perfections are infinite, therefore the progress of the spirit is limitless.
Whatever the European and American historians have written regarding His Highness Muhammad, the Messenger of God, most of it is falsehood.
Consider ye, is it possible for a person afflicted with epilepsy to establish such a great nation?  Therefore, this statement of the European historians, regarding that Holy Personage, is unqualified falsehood.
Reflect ye, that that illustrious Personage was born in the Sahara of Arabia among the ignorant tent dwellers, affiliating and associating with them until he grew to manhood and maturity; never studying the sciences and arts; nay, even he was apparently illiterate and uninstructed.  Notwithstanding all this, he brought forth such a nation, established such a religion and uttered such explanations regarding scientific questions with great perspicuity, and raised such a community from the nadir of ignorance and barbarism to the zenith of civilization and prosperity!  Through his influence, science, litera-
page 16
ture, philosophy, crafts and trades made wonderful progress during the medieval ages in Andalusia and Baghdád.
Now is it possible that such an illustrious Personage be afflicted with epilepsy?
Relative to the Paradise explained by Muhammad in the Qur'án, such utterances are spiritual and are cast into the mould of words and figures of speech, for at that time people did not possess the capacity of comprehending spiritual significances.  It is similar to that reference to His Highness Christ who, addressing His disciples said, "I shall not partake of the fruit of the vine any more until I reach the Kingdom of My Father."  Now it is evident His Highness Christ did not mean material grapes, but it was a spiritual condition and a heavenly state which He interpreted as this fruit.
Now whatever is revealed in the Qur'án has the same import.
Regarding the Most Great Name, its influence, both in physical and spiritual affairs, is indisputable and certain.
In the last Tablet (to the Board of Council of New York), in which I have stated, "I am not Christ and am not eternal," the meaning is this, that I am not Christ and not the Eternal Lord!  But I am 'Abdu'l-Bahá This is its real purport.  Undoubtedly those souls who are under the shadow of the Blessed Cause, believing and assured, firm and steadfast, and living in accord with the Divine exhortations and advices, all of them are confirmed in the Everlasting Life.
Regarding the materializing of spirits through mediums:  A person finding himself in a state of trance, or unconsciousness, is like one who sleeps; whatever he feels and sees he imagines to be matter and of material things, but in reality they are wholly immaterial.
O thou maid-servant of God!  Arouse ye the people and make them cheerful through the glad-tidings of God, and quicken them through the spirit of gladness and heavenly rejoicing.  The essence and foundation of all is to advance toward the Kingdom of Abhá and to be attracted by the Beauty of God.  Whatever produces any influence in the world of existence is on account of the Love of God, which is the Spirit of Life and the cause of salvation.
Convey on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Bahá wonderful Abhá greetings to the believers and the maid-servants of the Merciful.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 29 September 1908.


II:15, 12 December 1912
page 8
An interesting article pertaining to the Bahá'í Faith, from the pen of Mrs J. Stannard, appeared in The Egyptian Gazette (Alexandria), in its issue of 16 November.  We reprint it herewith:
The Bahá'í Faith
To the Editor, Egyptian Gazette.
Sir:  Having only just returned from Europe, I learn that there have been some recent allusions in the press to the above Persian religious movement and its leader, 'Abbás Effendi, or 'Abdu'l-Bahá ("Servant of God") as he prefers to be addressed by his followers and co-workers.
His visits to Switzerland, London and Paris having evoked widespread interest and indeed enthusiasm wherever he stayed.  I venture to ask permission for a little space in order to make a few observations on matters that are surely of historic importance and significance.
The world of Islám at least should open a wide door of hospitality to this great teacher with his message of peace and religious unity for through the beauty of his teachings and philosophical knowledge he has done more in Europe and America to remove obsolete intolerance against the Muslim Faith than any reformer of our days.  We live in stirring times of change and progress and now when once again the cries of war and race prejudices are being raised it is well if public attention be turned a little towards the Bahá'í movement and what it
page 9
stands for in our world today.  The mere personality and influence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, reveal the consistency of his message and teaching since he practices what he claims to show, and that is the brotherhood of man irrespective of colour or creed, and the inherent unity of all religions.  At his house and table for many years could be met at any time pilgrims and followers adhering to almost every kind of faith and race under the sun.  They met and sat together in complete harmony of thought and aim, for they were Bahá'ís.  Jews, Moslems, Christians, Pársís and Hindus-I have met all these varied types at different times in Syria round 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and we fraternized as though we belonged to one great family.
For forty years, nay from childhood, has 'Abbás Effendi suffered every kind of misery that bigotry, exile, and unjust imprisonment could inflict-a life spent in sacrifice and devotion to those high ideals of love, charity and compassion that Christians generally appropriate as their special religious prerogatives.  Both 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his great father Bahá'u'lláh (the founder of the Bahá'í movement, and foretold by the Báb in his book, the Bayán, 1814-1852) stood true to the light within, and this raised them above the petty divisions, quarrels and barbarities which have ever been the ordinary outcome of religious prejudices and enmities.  "God is One.  Ye are all brothers," said the prophet.  "By what right does one mean declare another unclean or claim that one race is superior and another inferior?"  "All are before God as the varied flowers in the beautiful garden of the Universe."  Great leaders who found movements or pioneers of science have ever had to suffer for their just views.  As Jesus was hounded to His death through political and religious fanaticism, so was the Báb martyred and the Bahá'í prophet tortured and imprisoned.  It is claimed that great causes evoke great leaders and reveal characters that cannot be measured by puny standards.  Names that have come down to us through posterity as human "lighthouses" are souls that stood faithful and unshaken to the noblest that lay within them.  They did and bore because anything else was impossible.  Natures that scorned compromise or weak subterfuges, they stand, the eternal "crucified" types to the lesser human standards.
Those of us capable of judging and weighing have the good fortune to recognize in one day teachers and bold thinkers of the 'Abbás Effendi and Tolstoyan type, and that we can recognize them is due to the persistency with which such souls live out the precepts they inculcate.  It is not a matter of verbal philosophy only, but of practical daily and hourly demonstration.  If the pioneer treads paths that seem too idealistic for our poor strength, if we do not feel in us that same urge to the heights of their endeavour, at least the humblest of us may refrain from casting stones in their way, we can repress the cheap criticism that may give these tireless workers needless pain or trouble.  Let us show generosity and approval for good intentions even if we feel ourselves above and beyond their influence.  Observations such as these spring to the mind almost inevitably when one has lived in the world some time and had the good (or bad) fortune to engage in work that makes for progress and advance in the world of humanity.
It was a matter for deep rejoicing to find that our Christian outlook in Europe has advanced so truly and thoroughly on lines of tolerance and philosophic understanding, that 'Abdu'l-Bahá found at once the interest and sympathy in his work, which for many bitter years he has failed to find among the very people who stood to gain all in higher development and progress by listening to his wisdom.  Let the Eastern world judge their leaders by the tests of life and action, not by their well sounding phrases.  'Ulamás who are content to role out grandiloquent Quranic expositions, or Christian priests who tell people how to live and do nothing themselves, are no longer honoured teachers in the life of today.  "Same are content with words, but the truth of words is tested by deeds and dependent upon life.  Deeds reveal the station of man"
page 10
... "The principle of Faith is to lessen words and to increase deeds.  He whose words exceed his acts knows verily that his non-being is better than his being and death better than his life."  These virile words from the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh reiterate some of the strong sentiments in the Qur'án and Gospel, yet the world's judgements too often incline towards the plausible theoretician or armchair philosopher whose hands are mostly idle.
Some of our most honoured names in the London religious and intellectual world have met and heard 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  People travelled long distances in Europe to see and speak to him.  He addressed two vast Sunday audiences in the City Temple and St John's, Westminster, besides countless other public meetings.  In Paris where he is now staying he is also attracting the interest and keen sympathy of thinkers in the intellectual ranks.
It remains on his return later to his native East for the friends of Islám to pay a just and generous tribute to this brave worker in the cause of peace and unity and thus consolidate the work of true brotherhood really going on among people of different nations at the present time.
Yours, etc., J. Stannard
An editorial of equal interest commenting upon the foregoing article appeared in the same issue.  In quoting it, we italicize certain statements to which we would direct the attention of the friends of the Cause in the West:
The return of 'Abbás Effendi
The letter from Mrs J. Stannard, which we publish in another column today, recalls the fact that 'Abbás Effendi, the leader of the Bahá'í movement, is shortly expected to return to the country where he has spent such a large part of his time since the Young Turks released him from his long imprisonment at Acre.  His presence here last year did not arouse the curiosity that such an interesting and commanding personality might have been expected to evoke.  His venerable figure might have been observed by the initiated, a quietly amused spectator at aviation meetings and the like, or gently expounding his doctrines to a few eager disciples in the shady walks of Nouzha Gardens.  But his doings attracted less public notice than those of comparatively unimportant officials and infinitely less than those of Faríd Bey.  Islám remained indifferent-if we disregard the early revilings of the local Muslim press-the greater part of the Christian community, it is safe to say, was entirely ignorant of the fact that we had such a mighty teacher in our midst, a man whose followers are said to number over a million in Persia alone, and whose doctrines are spreading in America and elsewhere with astonishing rapidity.  The indifference, or hostility, of Islám is the more remarkable since, as Mrs Stannard observes, 'Abbás Effendi has probably "done more in Europe and America to remove obsolete intolerance against the Muslim faith than any reformer of our day."  The Bahá'í Faith tolerates all faiths, apparently believes in all faiths up to some point never very clearly defined; and it has done Islám the service of explaining to the Far West that Muslims are not merely the Mormons of another hemisphere.  Tolerance so sublime as 'Abbás Effendi's is not easy to understand, even in the Twentieth Century, and though Mrs Stannard tells us that the followers of every known religion were to be found in the Bahá'í circle we cannot help doubting whether any very orthodox Muslims-or Christians either, for that matter-were numbered among them.  As far as Egypt is concerned, at all events, the new religion has made little perceptible progress and has met with nothing but indifference or active hostility from the representatives of the older faiths.  The voice of the Eastern Tolstoy, with his doctrines of peace and good will, has been drowned in the present outburst of patriotism and militant religion, just as the Western Tolstoy was shouted down in Russia, just as the Master from
page 11
whom both derive their teaching, was shouted down by the patriot Pharisees of Jerusalem.
But to Christians, at all events, and English Christians in particular, 'Abbás Effendi's return on the present occasion should arouse a real interest.  He returns from a remarkable visit to London and Paris, from conferences with the leaders of religious thought in England and France, from addressing vast audiences at the City Temple and elsewhere, on all of which occasions his personal triumph has been striking and complete.  No one who has had the privilege of meeting and conversing with the Bahá'í leader can be surprised at this, and it needs but little imagination to be impressed by the dramatic picture of this venerable Oriental in his white robes speaking to crowded congregations of London "City men", expounding in the Persian language those "high ideals of love, charity and compassion", which, as Mrs Stannard remarks, Western Christians have been too apt to regard as their own special prerogatives.  Such scenes were reported at length by our London contemporaries and reproduced from time to time in these columns during last summer.  Yet we must frankly admit that to us this is the least attractive side of the Bahá'í movement.  If Bahai-ism has found favour in the United States it cannot be forgotten that countless other "religions" have become popular there which would not have been taken seriously in any other country in the world.  About the London meetings, also, there was a certain air of gush and self-advertisement-not on the part of 'Abbás Effendi, but on the part of his enlightened friends-which was quite patent to all who are familiar with that kind of religion which will listen to anything so long as it is unorthodox, new, sensational.  We cannot help regretting the "lionizing" of 'Abbás Effendi.  In the East his religion will find its true home and exercise its beneficent influence upon nations newly awakening to a sense of their unity and power.  We can, then, the more heartily welcome him back to Egypt, fresh from achievements in the Western capitals which have afforded yet another proof of his remarkable personal and intellectual powers.
The criticism of the "lionizing" of 'Abdu'l-Bahá should be received in the same kindly spirit in which it is made.  In justice, however, to the friends in England, we quote the following extracts from a letter written by Mr Tudor Pole, of Bristol, to the Star of the West:
"Since 'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived in England and especially since he was my guest here, I have had some special opportunities for communion which have proved of immense service to me and to others.  There are one or two points of considerable moment that have been borne in upon me as a result and in communicating them to you it should be understood that I do so on my own initiative and that the suggestions I make are not at the direct suggestion of 'Abdu'l-Bahá himself.  He is a most remarkable figure in history and his love and wisdom are boundless, yet of course he is simply the servant of his Father who was undoubtedly a great Messenger of God, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá claims no other distinction. ...  There seems a tendency in America and elsewhere to focus too great attention on 'Abdu'l-Bahá rather than upon the Manifestation Itself. ...  'Abdu'l-Bahá, I can see, does not wish for references to himself save as the servant of God, the inspired exponent of his Father's great message.  To idolize 'Abdu'l-Bahá in exaggerated terms or forms is to delay the spread of the Bahá'í spirit of Unity. ...  We are wonderfully blessed to have him among us, but imagination, exaggerated emphasis must not be laid upon his personality or the whole movement will suffer.  This is a matter of supreme import."
In our opinion, this "lionizing" and "idolizing" of great souls is most natural.  Hero worship and adoration of personalities seemed necessary and
page 12
inevitable during the childhood and youthful epochs of humanity just closing-for we are now entering upon the epoch of maturity for the race.  "Following the Letter (a synonym for personality) rather than the Spirit," has been recognized by mature souls of the past, as a weakness of humanity.  Even today many sincere Christians fail to distinguish between Jesus (the man) and the Christ (Spirit) manifest in Him.  To those who do understand this distinction, idolizing is as intolerable as it is to the one being idolized-for every Servant of God admonishes the attracted ones and followers to abstain therefrom.  Repeatedly, 'Abdu'l-Bahá firmly but kindly, manifests this quality of greatness.
We should not go to the other extreme, however, and recognize only the Spirit, ignoring the personality.  To deny the personality, is to deny the purpose of creation and a reason for our existence in the image of God-the human form.  Consider the Hidden Word:  "O Son of Man!  In My Ancient Entity and in My Eternal Being was I hidden.  I knew My Love in thee, therefore I created thee; upon thee I laid My Image, and to thee revealed My Beauty."
The Bahá'í Revelation clearly teaches the Oneness and Singleness of God, i.e., the Manifested and the Secluded, the Personal and the Impersonal-phases should be considered of equal importance-holding both before the inner sight in perfect balance.  Equilibrium is a characteristic of maturity.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has stated, that if it be the Will of God, he will visit America during the coming year.  Let us begin now to "prepare the way" and help to make his "path straight" by becoming spiritually poised.


II:16, 31 December 1911
page 3
Discourses by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Given at Paris, France.
17 October 1911
I wish you to study the works of the Blessed Beauty and to live according to His teaching.  The basis of the teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is as follows:  "Bear in your heart great love to all races on earth, to the ends that unity may be established between them.  Take an interest in everyone and find out how you can help them, so that all may see that your love is truly universal.  Do the Will of God, do not only speak about it; the elect of God do this.  People do much speaking to advance their own glory and to make themselves appear superior to their neighbours.  But if you do the Will of God and do not blazon it abroad, then you will change the whole world.  They who do most speak least.
Man must ever be thinking of drawing nearer to God.
Look at the Italians, they pretended to love humanity, yet they wished to seize Tripoli for their own advancement, not for the good of humanity.
I hope that you will some day be able to hinder such actions, and thus enable justice to reign everywhere.  I hope you will be able to make all hearts pure and tender, all efforts sincere, so that everyone may work for the good of humanity.  This is my prayer and desire.
18 October
The Relation between Thought and Action.-You must not only think thoughts, but do actions.  The reality of men is their thoughts and their spirits, not their material bodies.  Man and animal with regard to matter are partners.  The difference is that man has the power of thought.
Thoughts may be divided into two classes:  1.  The world of thought alone.  2.  The world of thought which expresses itself in action.  For instance, philosophers belong to the first class, for they only think heavenly thoughts and do not do heavenly deeds.  Whereas spiritual teachers belong to the second class, for they express their high and noble thoughts in actions as soon as they think them.
Question:  If one refuses the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh during his lifetime, may he hear of it after death?
Yes, he will hear of it in his next life, but through the mercy of God alone, not through his own ability.
Question:  Are we not able, through love and faith, to make those on the other side hear of the Cause who had not heard of it while on earth?
Yes, surely sincere prayer always has its effect, and it has a great influ-
page 4
ence in the other world.  We are never cut oft from those who are there.  The real and genuine influence is not in this world but in that other.
Question:  In what condition is the soul before entering the body?
In a state of potentiality, possessing no consciousness as we understand it.
Travelling.-Travelling is a very good thing.  It opens the eyes and broadens the horizon.
In the East one may behold vast and desert places where once lay peopled towns; this shows the Hand of Almighty God.  History shows us how every nation which was against the Will of God has eventually been quite destroyed; and, accordingly, each nation which has listened to the Voice of God has prospered.  When travelling one makes discoveries of strange things, i.e., the Emperors of Rome ruled over many thousands of people and were famous and powerful, but now the Emperors are dead and their power has vanished.  Whereas the Christians began by being a small band of eleven disciples following Christ and living after His teaching, now there are many Christians all over the world and Christ's influence shall never die.
19 October
On Healing.-Healing comes from God, if the heavenly benediction be upon us while we are being healed, then only can we be truly healed.  All depends upon God.  Medicine is merely an outward form or means by which we obtain heavenly healing; without the Heavenly Benediction it is worth nothing.  If man looks at the nature of the world around him, he will see that all created beings are dependent upon something, i.e., man is dependent for his life upon the air which he breathes, likewise the animals which are upon the earth, and each created being is dependent for its life upon some material circumstances.  Man, therefore, and all creatures are prisoners of nature.  The sun must follow his law, the earth must follow his law of motion, the sea also hers.  But, by the spiritual power of God, which, through His Bounty, He has bestowed upon men alone, man is enabled to defy the laws of nature in many and wonderful ways, i.e., it is the law of nature that man should walk upon the earth, but he defies this law, for he sojourns upon the water and also flies, like the bird, through the air.
Through the wonderful spiritual power which God gives to man, man is enabled to reach the Kingdom of Heaven; but behold! man is not grateful and is careless of the great mercy which God has shown him.
20 October
The sun shines upon the earth, giving light and warmth to all creatures.  The Sun of Truth also shines, giving light and warmth to the souls of men.  All existing creatures need the sun to shine upon them and develop them that they may grow.  The souls of men also need the Sun of Truth to shine upon them, to educate and encourage them.  Circumstances that benefit the body do not benefit the soul, and the soul of man is his reality, not his body, i.e., there are some men who are perfected in material things and very backward
page 5
in the spiritual.  Likewise many, who are at the bottom of the social and material ladder, are very much advanced spiritually.
Galien, a Greek Philosopher who died at the time when the Christian Religion was in its growth-and was not himself a Christian-wrote many books about material civilization and development.  He states as his belief that Religion is the basis of all true civilization, that is to say that not only must the brain and gifts of a nation be educated, but also the moral character.  The Christians; he points out, are an example to show the truth of this theory, for theirs was the basis upon which the largest and most prosperous civilization of the world had been founded and their morals were very high.  They were taught not to fear death, and to love their neighbours as themselves and live only for the good of humanity, and only to think of doing good to mankind.  If these principles had been carefully carried out by the followers of Jesus Christ, then there would be no need for the world to be reawakened.  But winter fell upon the hearts of men, and God sent His prophets to shine upon them with the Spring of the Sun of righteousness that they may be again awakened and blossom forth and bear fruit.  Because mankind has shut its ears to the Voice of God and has neglected His teachings, wars and tumults, unrest and misery have fallen upon them.  Let us make every effort to reopen the hearts of men to the Will of God.  I pray God to give you power to bring humanity beneath the rays of the Sun of Truth and Peace.
23 October
When a man has found joy in one place he returns to that same place to find his joy again.  When a man has found gold in a mine he will return again to that mine to find more gold; this is a natural law and shows forth the vital and spiritual powers which God has bestowed upon man, and the natural instinct which is born in him.  The Great Light of the Spirit has ever arisen in the East, but it has shed forth its radiance into the West.  And in the West has it found its greatest force of expansion.
The Christ rose like a star in the horizon of the East, but the Light of His influence has taken root more firmly in the West.  This shows us how that the people of the West are very faithful in their hearts and they do not easily forget.  The West is like a good plant.  When the rain falls gently upon it to give it nourishment and the sun shines upon it to give it warmth, then does it blossom forth and bear good fruit.
It is a long time since the Sun of Righteousness has shed its Radiance upon the West, for the Face of God has been hidden by the sin and forgetfulness of man; but now, thanks be to God! the Sun shines forth in all its glory and the breath of the Holy Spirit is watchful over the nations.  Let us pray to God that the light and refreshment may awaken the people and give them new life, that they shall find a second life and there shall be a new creation.  Humanity shall put on a new garment and the Mercy of God will be showered upon the people.  My earnest desire is that you will work for this
page 6
end, that you may be the cause of it.  It is certain that the Flag of Divinity has been raised and the Sun of Righteousness of God appears upon the horizon.  Be faithful and loving workers that you may be among the blest of God and receive the benefits of the Kingdom of Abhá.
25 October
I regret that you have been kept waiting so long.  Yet, I have waited so many years in prison before I could see you-surely you do not mind waiting a little to see me.  Our hearts are always together and the Bounty of the Kingdom of Abhá binds our spirits in one.  For have we not one aim, one desire and one prayer?  Therefore we are always together.
Last night, when I returned home, I did not sleep.  I lay awake thinking and I said to myself:  "Here am I in Paris.  O my God! what is Paris and who am I?"  I never thought from the darkness of my prison that I should come here and be among you, for I was condemned to perpetual imprisonment.  When I read the document which told me of my sentence, I said to the officials:  "It is impossible!"  And they were astonished.  Then I said to them:  "If 'Abdu'l-Hamíd were immortal and I myself were immortal, then would it be possible for him to condemn me to be in prison forever, but as we are not immortal, then it is impossible.  My spirit is free and that can no man imprison."
Now you see the powers of God, that I am no longer in prison, but here in Paris, talking with you.  I am thankful to meet the spiritual friends and you also must be happy that God has allowed me to come among you.  For who indeed would have thought it possible that I should be here talking in Paris?
Farewell words to Europe
1 December
I bid a loving farewell to the people of France and England.  I am very much pleased with them.  I counsel them that they may day by day strengthen the bond of love and amity to this end-that they may become the sympathetic embodiment of one nation-that they may extend themselves to a universal Brotherhood to guard and protect the interests and rights of all the nations of the East-that they may unfurl the Divine Banner of justice-that they may realize and treat each nation as a family composed of the individual children of God and may know that before the sight of God the rights of all are equal.
For all of us are the children of one Father.  God is at peace with all His children:  why should they engage in strife and warfare among themselves?  God is showering down kindness; why should the inhabitants of this world exchange unkindness and cruelty?
"Ye are all the leaves of one tree and the fruits of one branch."
Beware!  Beware!  Lest ye offend any heart.
Beware!  Beware!  Lest ye hurt any soul.
Beware!  Beware!  Lest ye deal unkindly toward any person:
Beware!  Beware!  Lest ye be the cause of hopelessness to any creature.


II:16, 31 December 1911
page 7
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in America
Through Díyá Effendi, Chicago-Upon him be Bahá'u'lláh!-to Claudia Stuart Coles, Washington, D.C.-Upon her be Bahá'u'lláh!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art enkindled by the fire of the love of God!
Verily, I have perused thy beautiful letter of wonderful composition, which proveth thy firmness, assurance and steadfastness in the faith; and thy singing the verses of holiness to thy Merciful Lord.  Blessed art thou from this great gift.  Joy be unto thee from this vast providence.
Know thou that the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is the greatest foundation in those regions.  God said in the Qur'án, "It is those who believed in God, and the Last Day, shall build the Temples of God."  It is incumbent upon thee and upon all, to put forth the best effort in these days, in building this glorious Temple; raising the tumult of commemorations therein, during the wing of the night, at dawn, and at eventide.  It is incumbent upon ye (men and women) to be united, in this great Cause, so that ye may be confirmed by the Divine Bounty, and Merciful Spirit; become increased with energy and power; gain a recompense, and estimation.  I implore God, and supplicate Him to make your feet firm in the straight path, and in the upright way.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The foregoing Tablet from our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá reached me in London and I think will be as a glad clarion call to all in regard to the work of the Cause.  Over and over in Tablets about the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has given to each soul a call to service for the glory of God.  It is not Chicago, nor America, nor a group of believers, that are to be glorified by the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, but the Living God, and when the Light of the Guidance of God says "it is incumbent upon ye, men and women, to be united in this great Cause," surely every soul who believes that the Day of God is here, will, as one body, arise for "this great service".
'Abdu'l-Bahá expects to attend the Convention to be held in Chicago during the coming spring-time.  Unquestionably, he will dedicate the site of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár at that time.
Through the guidance of God this site has been chosen, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá's wish that there be room for ample grounds is being obeyed.  He has said that "all shall unite."  If those of us who call ourselves believers, for a few short weeks shall lay aside our own ideas of what seems to us best for the Cause and do that which 'Abdu'l-Bahá says is the most important work at this time; if we can take the step outlined for us by him, believing, seeing, feeling, hearing and trusting in his wisdom; if in selflessness, humility and unity we serve together in earnest effort-his desires will be fulfilled and the site of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (The Dawning Place of the mentioning of God) found ready for his consecration.  Every one has deep responsibility; no one human being knows in full the demands upon another soul; no one can judge the work of another-that is God's work; but each soul can, in humble faith, face squarely the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in regard to what he says is "the most important work", and, in the measure of seeking, find light and hope and power that will be dynamic in its realization.
Prayerfully studying this Tablet in humility, in reverence, in faith, let us unite to work shoulder to shoulder as inspired atoms of one great tool with which 'Abdu'l-Bahá can lay the foundation of the cause of Confirmation to the Cause.  Then truly "will we become increased with energy and power; gain a recompense and estimation."
O Lord, make our feet firm in the straight path!
Claudia Stuart Coles


11:16, 31 December 1911
page 8
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to America
To the friends of God and the maidservants of the merciful in America:
HE IS GOD!
O ye friends of God and the beloved maidservants of the True One!
'Abdu'l-Bahá has the utmost longing to meet you, but now he is obliged to return to the East, for he has promised many friends and they having travelled a long way, will be disappointed if the meeting is not brought about.  Therefore, he has returned to Egypt, and hopes that during the next spring no obstacle may arise, so that with infinite joy and fragrance he may hasten to America to meet the friends, to unfurl the banner of rejoicing, to spread the Glad-Tidings of the Kingdom of Abhá, to illumine the meetings and gatherings with the Rays of the Sun of Truth, to perfume the nostrils with the Fragrances of Holiness, to impart gladness and delight to the hearts, to attract the souls to the Realms of Might, to grant the outpouring of the Holy Spirit-so that in this nether world the congregation of the Righteous Ones may be firmly established.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The bounties of the Most Great Name are descending.  Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The Lights of the Kingdom of Abhá are shining.  Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The Doors of Heaven are opened and the call of the Kingdom is raised.
Upon you be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by M. Ahmad Sohráb, New York, 16 December 1911.


11:16, 31 December 1911
page 8
Letter to the American Bahá'ís
It was on the 7 December that I left 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Marseilles.  My last request of him was to assist and confirm all the American Bahá'ís in the accomplishment of great services.  He said:  "The American friends will be assisted and helped."  For a moment he was silent.  Then he raised his head and continued, saying:  "All those who have unselfish motives, whose hearts are devoid of any personal interests, will be assisted in this Cause.  They will be confirmed by the heavenly cohorts-rest thou assured."
'Abdu'l-Bahá was very much pleased with the result of his work in London and Paris.  While leaving Europe physically, his spiritual presence will be the cause of great benediction for countless ages to come.  During my stay in Paris, having been permitted to live in the same apartment with him, I daily witnessed the marvellous power of his love and active interest in all those who are concerned in the uplifting of the human race.  His great power in imparting happiness to all those who are depressed or are passing through a period of trials and tests, cannot be measured by human criterion.  This one power alone distinguishes him above all men, for, notwithstanding the complexity of problems that he must solve daily and the thousand and one details that he must attend to for them, yet he is always beaming and imparting happiness to all those who come in touch with him.
We are looking forward with great anticipation to his visit to America, which will be some time in the early part of the spring.  It is now the opportune time for all the friends in America to arise with one purpose and with one aim to prepare the way in a practical manner.
The Persian-American Educational Society has taken definite steps for the arrangement of his visit to America and will deem it a pleasure and a privilege to assist the friends all over the country with practical suggestions.  His presence in America will be one of the most significant events of the twentieth century and the effect of his words will be far reaching.  He does not come to visit any sect or religion or nationality, but he comes to meet ninety million Americans whose open mindedness for truth and whose open heartedness for the highest ideals of life are well known all over the world.  In 'Abdu'l-Bahá we will see a representation of divine virtues and human perfections.  He will come to us with the noblest thoughts of peace and brotherhood which have been crystallizing for ages in the Orient.  He will represent to us the longings and the hopes of many million Bahá'ís in the East.  May we all be ready to stand firm in his presence.  May we all be assisted to accomplish our duties.  May we all be inspired to prepare the way for him.  The time is short, the opportunities are many and it lies in our power to take part in this great spiritual work.  The standard of truth will be raised, the signs of the Kingdom of Abhá will be spread, the wintry season of dogmas and superstitions will be changed into the balmy spring time, the highway of righteousness will be paved and men of all races and nations will walk therein,
page 10
singing the songs of the Kingdom and raising the voice of glorification toward the Supreme Concourse.  Army of the Kingdom of Abhá, be prepared for review by the Supreme Commander!
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb


II:16, 31 December 1911
page 14
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
HE IS GOD!
O servant of the True One!
What thou hadst written was known.  It was a clear evidence of thy thoughtfulness and mindfulness in the Cause of the most Merciful One.  I supplicate God that thou mayest at every moment advance in the grades of
page 15
divine love and devotion, spiritual attraction and merciful sentiments; and be benevolent and a comfort to both friends and strangers.
It is mentioned in the Gospel that a man called His Holiness, Christ, "Good Master".  His Holiness said unto him, "Why callest thou Me good?  None is good save One, that is God."  So 'Abdu'l-Bahá wishes a sin covering eye and conceals the people's faults as far as possible; for he considers himself incapable and deficient in the Servitude of the Lord.  Therefore, being engaged in his own short-comings, he does not care about the sins of others, but always asks remission and forgiveness for them, and seeks bounty and grace in their behalf.
If a fault is committed by someone and I treat him with kindness, this is not on account of my negligence; but as I acknowledge my own short-comings and am cognizant of my own state, I do not show any opposition to others.
It is recorded in the Gospel that an adulteress was brought to the presence of Jesus Christ and confessed her sin.  Those present asked Him why He did not command her to be stoned.  He said, he who does not deserve a legal punishment, that is to say, "he that is without sin", may get up and stone the adulteress.  All of them looking upon themselves found themselves sinful, and "went out one by one".
Now it is this condition which must always be had under consideration, otherwise the matter will be difficult.  It is said in the Qur'án, "Hadst thou been severe and hard-hearted, they had surely separated themselves from about Thee."  But the people must be just.  If, notwithstanding their injustice, they receive favours, this will make them mindful and admonished.  As to my short-comings in case of other persons who are firm, devoted and steadfast:  I always acknowledge and confess my weakness and my failure and the beloved of God will certainly excuse.  When a letter is received from them, I have done my best possible to send them an answer.  Moreover writing letters has nothing to do with that pure, spiritual and divine love.  Many persons in the blessed days (i.e., in the time of the Blessed Perfection) were recipients of favours, and had numerous long Tablets, but in this day wavered in such a manner that they did not hearken to or obey the divine commandments, and overlooked even the commands revealed in their own Tablets.  Yet there are some other souls who have in this day not, been addressed in the Day of the Blessed Perfection.  This is from the Bounty of God; He grants to whomsoever He willeth.  God is the possessor of Great Bounty.
The essential thing and the real nearness to God, is to be steadfast in the Religion of God, to serve His Cause and to be in Servitude at the Threshold of Unity.  This is necessary.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá. M. Bagdadi, 23 September 1911.


II:17, 19 January 1912
page 2
Alliance Spiritualiste of Paris reception to 'Abdu'l-Bahá
9 November 1911
...
page 3
...
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
I am very grateful for the words and sentiments expressed by the general secretary.  I give thanks to God to find myself in Paris in such a spiritual assembly.
If we look at the atmosphere of this meeting, we see that the spirit floats in it, the bounties of God descend, the aid of the Holy Spirit is seen.  Thanks to God, these hearts are endowed with spiritual sentiments; the vibrations of the soul make themselves felt.
The spirit is like the sea, this assembly like the waves-though they are numerous, they all come from the same sea; though they apparently have different forms and aspects, the unity of the spirit is manifest.
All the prophets and Divine Manifestations have come to educate men, in order that the unity of the human world may shine clearly and distinctly,
page 4
so that there remain no authority to the waves; that the authority be peculiar to the sea, for the spirit is like the sea and the bodies are like the waves.
It is said in the Gospels, "Jerusalem will come down out of heaven from God."  This heavenly Jerusalem is not made of stone, of lime and of clay, but it is made of the divine teachings which shine among men by the power of the spirit.  For a long time, the divine teachings had been forgotten, no trace remained of the light of the heavenly Jerusalem.  When Bahá'u'lláh manifested Himself from the Orient, the light of His divine teachings shone forth in Persia unto other parts of the world.  This divine teaching is the heavenly Jerusalem which has again "come down out of heaven".  Although that edifice had fallen to pieces, it is founded anew.  The corporal and material forces ruled over the Orient; now the spiritual forces have taken their place.
Thanks to God, I see at Paris a respectable assembly which lives by the breath of the soul.  Man is not man by the body, he is man by the spirit, for by the body he is the associate of the animal; that which distinguishes him is the spirit.  As the sun illumines the earth, so the spirit illumines the body.  It renders man celestial; gives him kindness by the breath of the Holy Spirit; makes him understand the reality of things; discovers all sciences; offers eternal life; unites the nations; joins the Orient and the Occident, and changes the human world into a divine world.  Consequently, those who receive the bounties of the Spirit give life to others.
Now, you who are spiritual ought to be glad and joyful for the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, who is the founder of spirituality in this age.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are only spiritual.  One should seek the Truth, which is the cause of the manifestations of the spirit, for the spirit will not make itself felt by the senses, but it will manifest itself by the hidden faculties.  Though the human body is sensitive, its spirit is hidden; it is the spirit which commands the body.
The spirit acts in two ways:  One way is by instruments; that is, it sees with the eyes, it hears with the ears and speaks with the tongue.  These instruments work by the spirit, which is their motor; though its senses are manifested by the body, they come from the faculty of the spirit.  The other way is that of being and acting without instruments; as in dreams and visions, it sees without eyes, hears without ears, speaks without the tongue, walks without feet.  All the faculties of the spirit are clear and distinct in the world of visions.  Hence it is evident that the spirit acts in two ways:  First, by the instruments of the body; second, without the instruments of the body.
Thus it is that one's body may be in the Occident and the spirit finds out the situation in the Orient, and it directs and conducts the affairs there.  Therefore it is evident that the spirit is powerful and the body weak.
The body is like the crystal and the spirit is like the light.  Though the crystal be extremely transparent, its brilliancy and splendour belong to the brightness of the light.  To be luminous, the light does not need the crystal, but the crystal to be bright needs the light.  Even so the spirit does not live by the body, but the body lives by the spirit.
If the body is mutilated, the spirit conserves always its greatness and power.  For example:  If the hand of a man is cut off, the spirit keeps its authority and sovereignty; if the eye becomes blind, the spirit remains clear sighted; but if the attributes of the spirit leave the body, immediately the
page 5
body becomes nothing.  Thus it is affirmed that man is man only by the spirit and not by the body.
This spirit is one of the divine bounties, a manifestation of the Sun of Truth; but if the human spirit receive the breath of the Holy Spirit, then it is a pure spirit.  The breath of the Holy Spirit is the divine teaching; in it the spirit finds eternal life.  It is the heavenly light and illumines the human world by the divine qualities.  Hence we must endeavour to act according to the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.
Let us endeavour from day to day to become more spiritual, to bring about the unity of the human world, to practice human equality, to diffuse the divine mercy, to show the love of God to all those who are on the earth, so that the spiritual faculties may shine in all their splendour; that no authority remain to the body, so that the spirit, which sustains and rules the human world, may form one being, one person.  Differences and disputes will exist no longer.  The divine Jerusalem will be founded universally.  All men will be the inhabitants of the same kingdom and they will take their part in the divine bounties.
I thank God to find myself in your assembly and I am grateful for your spiritual sentiments.  I pray God to increase your sentiments each day; to strengthen this union and accord, so that the prophecies of the Holy Scripture become visible, for this epoch will be great, this century will be divine; the traces of all the scriptures will be seen; the signs given by Christ will became manifest.  It will be the great day of the Lord.  Divine justice will shine.  It will be the time of peace, of justice, of union and of happiness.  I hope that at this epoch the corporal world will become the reflection and echo of the divine world.  Such is our hope, and, thanks to God, we agree in this desire.
I ask God that you may live by the breath of the Holy Spirit, that you be united, that all the hearts be filled with the love of God, that your tongue pronounce often the Name of God, that your actions be spiritual, that your sentiments be like those of the inhabitants of the Kingdom, in order that the human light, which is the image of God, may shine brilliantly.
O God!  Kind, generous, merciful; illumine this assembly with the light of Thy love; vivify these souls with the breath of the Holy Spirit, offer the heavenly lights and the great bounties, give us Thy help, show us spirituality, give us the light of a good conduct, give to the spirits infinite bounties and generosity.
O Creator!  We are poor, give us of the treasure of the Kingdom; we are humble, glorify us in Thy Kingdom; we are homeless, protect us, shelter us; we are seekers, lead us by Thy limitless favours; we are silent, give us an eloquent tongue; we are weak, give us the strength of the Kingdom.
O Creator!  He who pardons!  Pardon our faults; grant us bounties; forgive us our sins, teach us divine politeness.  Thou art the One who gives; Thou art the One who offers; Thou art kind!


II:17, 19 January 1912
page 6
Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the friends in Stuttgart
Upon them be the Glory of the Most Glorious.
HE IS GOD!
O friends and maidservants of the Merciful!
Thanks be to God! that you have been gathered together and celebrated the birthday of the Báb with much joy and amity and were engaged in remembering God.
From the rose-garden of that meeting a beautiful fragrance has reached to the nostrils of these friends; and the light of God's love hath shone; therefore, it was a cause of delighting the hearts of these friends.  I ask God, by His infinite mercy, that such meetings may be held often.
Likewise, that the entertainment every nineteen days may become current among you; so that the friends and maidservants of the Merciful may be engaged in praising and remembering God and singing to Him, and may become the cause of guiding the people.
Upon you all be the Glory of the Most Glorious!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Yuhanna Dáwud, 15 August 1911.
__________
Through Mírzá Yuhanna Dáwud, London, to the maidservant of God, Margarethe Döring, Stuttgart.
HE IS GOD!
O daughter of the Kingdom!
Your letter arrived, and its contents showed that Mr Gregory, by visiting the blessed Tomb,1 hath received a new power, and obtained a new life.  When he arrived at Stuttgart, although black of colour, yet he shone as a bright light in the meeting of the friends.  Verily, he hath greatly advanced in this journey, he received another life and obtained another power.  When he returned, Gregory was quite another Gregory.  He hath become a new creation.  Reflect on the Grace of the Kingdom of Abhá and see how it enlightened such a person.  It has made him spiritual, heavenly, divine and a manifestor of the graces of the world of humanity, This man shall progress.
Thank God that you esteem Miss Knobloch, because she was the cause of your guidance.  With weeping and supplication I ask from the Kingdom of Abhá, that He may vouchsafe heavenly blessings upon your father, mother,
page 7
sisters and brothers; and graciously enlighten Frl. Schaffer, Frl. Andrassy and Fran. Kusterer with the Light of Guidance.
Convey my greetings to Herr Kruttner, and Herr Richard Bauerle.  I supplicate to the Divine Glory, and ask for them bright hearts, merciful spirits, seeing eyes and hearing ears.
I ask God to make you a firm rooted, verdant and fruitful tree in the Paradise of Abhá.
Upon thee be the Glory of the Most Glorious!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Yuhanna Dáwud, 15 August 1911.
__________
Through Mírzá Muhammad Yazdí, Alexandria, to the friends of God in Stuttgart.
Upon them be the Glory of God!
HE IS GOD!
O my true friends!
The friends on their return from Stuttgart are praising all the friends of the Merciful in that city, saying:  Praise be to God! that the friends are in utmost attachment and are ignited by the Fire of the Love of God.  They are occupied in naught but the Divine commemoration.  And also the contents of your letter proved your great love.
It seems that the Light of the Sun of Truth will shine powerfully in Stuttgart and all over Germany; the Breath of the Holy Spirit will show forth a great result, and the Bounty of the Word of God will spread over all.
I give you the Glad-tidings that your advancement in the Divine Kingdom will be great and that the Doors of the Kingdom are opened to all the people of Germany.
Who will embrace it first?  I hope that the called ones of Germany may become the chosen ones.
Therefore you should seek no rest; nay rather endeavour day and night to guide the people, to give sight to the blind, to give life to the dead and to grant Everlasting Life.
Upon you be the Glory of God!
December, 1917 (Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


II:17, 19 January 1912
page 8
News notes
[Message sent to Bahá'ís in Stuttgart through Lady Bloomfield, Mrs Earle, Mírzá Asadu'lláh and Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.  Report by Frederich Schweizer.]
Rejoice!  Rejoice!  Because of the Glad-tidings!  You have attained to the light of the Kingdom.  The glory of the Sun of Truth penetrates all regions.
Rejoice!  Rejoice!  Glad-tidings I send unto you.  The doors of the Kingdom are open.  The heavenly manna has descended upon you.
Rejoice!  Rejoice!  There were many holy messengers sent into the world; they came after one another, and all diffused the breath of the Holy Spirit.
Praise God!  Praise God!  That you have turned your faces toward the Kingdom.  The rays of the Sun of Truth are illuminating you.
Strive with your heart and soul that the Heavenly Light may descend upon all people and that through it every heart may be enlightened and that the spirit of the human race may partake of Its glory.  Work and strive until all regions of the world are bathed in this Light.  Fear not when trouble overtakes you.  You will be criticized; you will be persecuted;  you will be cursed and reviled.  Recall in those days what I tell you now:  Your triumph will be sure; your hearts will be filled with the Glory of God, for the heavenly power will sustain you, and God will be with you.  This is my message to you.


11:18, 7 February 1912
page 3
An address on truth
Delivered by 'Abdu'l-Bahá on 24 November 1911, at the home of Mademoiselle Gastea, Paris, France.
All the divine prophets are the Manifestations of Truth.  His Highness Moses declared the Truth.  His Highness The Christ spread the Truth.  His Highness Muhammad established the Truth.  All the elect of God proclaimed the Truth.  His Highness Bahá'u'lláh unfurled the ensign of Truth.  All the sanctified souls who have stepped into the arena of existence have been the lamps of Truth.
Truth is the oneness of the kingdom of humanity.  Truth is love among the children of men.  Truth is the proclamation of Justice.  Truth is divine guidance.  Truth is the virtues and perfections of the human world.  Truth is equality between the people of all countries.  Truth is the illumination of the realm of man.
All the prophets of God have been the heralds of Truth.  All have been united and agreed on this principle.  Every prophet predicted the coming of a successor and every successor acknowledged the Truth of the predecessor.  Moses prophesied the coming of Christ.  Christ acknowledged Moses.  His Highness Christ foretold the appearance of Muhammad, and Muhammad accepted The Christ and Moses.  When all these divine prophets were united with each other, why should we disagree?  We are the followers of those holy souls.  In the same manner that the prophets loved each other, we should follow their example, for we are all the servants of God and the Bounties of the Almighty are encircling every one.
God is in peace with all His children, why should we be engaged in war?  God is kind to every one, why should we oppress each other?  The foundation of divine religion is Love, Affinity and Concord.  Praise God, that this cycle is the period of illumination!  Minds have made great progress; intelligences have been unfolded; the means of unity and agreement are being brought about and communication between the races of men is rapidly being established.  Now is the time that all of us may embrace the law of peace and treat each other with honesty and straightforwardness.  Let the religious prejudices be wiped away.  Let the law of racial supremacy be discountenanced.  Let political Expediencies be done away with.  Let the love of country be superseded by the love of the world.  Let us all deal with each other with infinite kindness.  We are all the servants at the one Divine Threshold.  We are all receiving the rays of truth from the same Sun of Reality.  We must all believe in all the prophets.  We must all acknowledge the divine authority of all the heavenly
page 4
books.  We must wash our hearts free of all human prejudices.  We must serve God.  We must propagate the oneness of the realm of humanity.  We must be the cause of the appearance of the perfections in the world of man.  We must not be like the beasts of prey.  We must not allow carnage and bloodshed.  We must regard the blood of men as sacred.  We must not shed the holy blood of man for the paltry earth.  We must all agree upon one fundamental principle.  That principle is the oneness of the kingdom of humanity.
Consider ye!  What things are transpiring now in Tripoli!  How many fathers have become without sons!  How many, little children have become fatherless!  How many kind and affectionate mothers are weeping for the death of their sons!  How many women are lamenting and mourning over the cruel death of their beloved husbands!  This sacred blood of humanity is shed for a piece of land!  The beasts of prey never fight for this aim.  Everyone is contented in his own place.  The wolf is satisfied after receiving his share of life.  The leopard will creep into his own lair after partaking of his food.  The lion will crouch in his own jungle.  No one intelligently or on purpose will ever entertain the desire to oppress another.
Alas!  Alas!  Although pitiless man brings under his dominion all the nests of humanity, yet he aspires for more.  On the other hand, we easily realize that God has given to man divine intelligence, but he has become worse than the beasts of prey.  The beasts of prey do not tear in pieces the members of their own species.  No matter how ferocious a wolf may be, he cannot kill more than ten sheep in one night, but man is becoming the means of destroying hundreds of thousands of his fellow beings in one day.  Now, be just!  How can this agree with reason?  If a man kills his brother he is called a murderer; if he crimsons the battlefield with the blood of hundreds of thousands of innocent men, he is hailed as a great conqueror!  If a man steals ten dollars from another he is considered to be a guilty thief, but if he has pillaged a large country he will be known in history as a patriot.  If he destroys with fire one house he is accused of arson, but if he bombards a city with the fire of cannon he is called a victorious being.  All these events connote the evils of human ignorance, the blood-thirstiness of the nature of man and the lack of faith.  For if man believes in divine Justice he will not consent to the suffering of any soul and he will not allow the shedding of one drop of blood; nay, rather he will exert himself day and night to make one soul happy.
Now, praise be to God, the signs of intelligence are becoming manifest among the people in some parts of the world.  This is the dawning of the dayspring of the Most Great Peace.  This is our hope:  to spread the oneness of the realm of man, to destroy the foundation of hatred and animosity from among the people, to make manifest the Greatest Peace, so that the nations of the world may affiliate with each other and all the governments may strengthen between themselves the bonds of love and unity, the International Court of Arbitration may be established and all the world-wide problems and difficulties which arise between the nations may be adjudicated in that Universal Court.
page 5
The solving of these international problems depend upon the increase of the number of the lovers of Peace, and those who are devoted to the greater friendship of nations may add their power to the public opinion which revolves around the Peace of the World.  Then, through the powerful demonstration of the people of peace and reconciliation, all the nations will be forced to accept the doctrine of Peace.
Love is illumination.  Love is the cause of life.  Hatred is conducive to death.  Undoubtedly wise men prefer life to death, unity to discord, and will endeavour with heart and soul that these impenetrable dark clouds may vanish and the Sun of Reality may shine forth; this world may become another world; this mound of earth may be changed into a delectable paradise, the East and the West may embrace each other, the North and the South may clasp hands of true fellowship, so that the true, divine Love may become unveiled in the world of man.  For to love man is to love God, and to be kind to the people is to serve God.  Pray and exert yourselves with heart and soul so that you may become the means of creating love among the children of men.  We hope that through your efforts religious, racial and political prejudices may pass away, and the tired world may receive peace and tranquillity.
You who have children know of a fact how beloved they are to you.  Those who are bereaved of the meeting of their children because they are killed in fighting, are like unto you.  Consider, what will be the mental agitation of a mother and a father when they look upon the body of their son steeped in blood!  Will they have any more desire to live?  Will they have any composure, any comfort?  Those who are now at war in Tripoli are passing through agonies and their fathers and mothers are in a desperate mood.
God has created us to be loving and compassionate toward each other, and not draw the sword before each others' faces.  We must adorn the gathering of love and peace, and not drill soldiers for the ranks of the army.  We must organize courts of justice.  God has given to us eyes so that we may look upon each other with the eyes of the Love of God.  He has granted us hearts so that we may become attached to each other and not show enmity and rancour.  Consider how God has been good to man!  He has given him understanding, intelligence and sentiment so that he may exert these divine faculties in the path of love and not in the way of harm.  We must supplicate God that He may confirm and assist us to become the embodiment of the perfections of man; not to extinguish the torch lighted by the Hand of Majesty; not to stop the down-pouring of the Rain of Mercy; not to cut His green and verdant trees; not to prevent the descent of heavenly blessings, but to become confirmed in such wise as to adorn the realm of humanity, to illumine the East and the West, to create means of the interdependence of man, to destroy the basis of war and to become the cause of the affiliation of the hearts.
This is our hope!  This is our utmost aspiration!  We beg of God to assist us therein.  His Highness Bahá'u'lláh dawned from the horizon of
page 6
Persia and spread to all parts of the world the rays of the Most Great Guidance.  He invited all to the Greatest Peace and gave advice to all, especially to Napoleon the Third, who was at that time Emperor of France.  For fifty years He suffered everything in life so that by degrees the hearts became attracted to the Most Great Peace.  Now, praise be to God, this light is continually spreading its benefits and ere long the Banner of the Most Great Peace shall become unfurled.  We will exert ourselves day and night so that the world of man may become harmonized and the Sun of Truth and the Rays of Reality may enlighten the East and the West.


11:18, 7 February 1912
page 6
A glimpse of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Paris
Alice R. Beede
After a morning talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at his apartment No. 4 Ave. de Camoens on 15 October 1911, all those present were invited that Sunday afternoon to meet him at four o'clock at 22 rue Seeden Rollin pre Saint Gernais (Seine) outside the walls of Paris, where a real Bahá'í settlement work is carried on by Mons. V. Ponsonaille and his good wife.  They are poor people.  He is employed as a collector for one of the large department stores in Paris.  Having received the Message, he felt his work for the Cause of God was among the very poor children, waifs and those who had no parents; so with his wife, some years ago settled his home here and by going without their noon day meal (which to the French means much) they could give it to these little ones.  They started in an old car where they met together to read the Tablets and hear the Word of Bahá'u'lláh.  It was not long before many came and it grew so that the clergy of many sects desired to have it consolidated under them.  Mons. Ponsonaille did not consider this the way to serve best and he declined all these offers.  At last, they grew so very jealous that they, with the help of the priests, took the car from him.  The Bahá'í friends in Paris offered to build a place for his work and Mons. Ponsonaille told them if they would furnish him the boards and nails that he would build it himself, which he did, and it was here that we went, and after three months spent going around Paris every day, I assure you I had never seen such a dirty, miserable quarter.
After leaving the train on the main street, we walked down to the end of a narrow lane or street without sidewalks, on which doors opened to places where soldiers and women were drinking and screaming, while from the small windows bedclothes were hanging out, and women and children could be seen.  It was with joy we at last saw a familiar face and Mons. De Scott, the artist, pointed to the small gate through which we passed and by the discarded car into a small board cabin about 2025 feet.  At one end was a raised platform and desk of rough boards.  I can only say as my eyes fell first upon The Greatest Name hanging in a frame from this desk and I saw the crowd of
page 7
miserably poor, dear little ones gathered there, and as my ears caught the music of their voices (for they were singing), tears filled my eyes and a great lump choked me.  Then I looked and saw we were but a half dozen who had come as guests, and all, like myself, were deeply affected.  It was Madam Ponsonaille, a woman with a strong, kind and most intelligent face, who evidently had taught the children to sing and who with her whole heart was leading and keeping time for them, for they had no instrument.  After the song Mons. Ponsonaille read a Tablet sent by the Master, for he called 'Abdu'l-Bahá "The Master", and it is quite evident that they all know him as the Master.  Mons. Ponsonaille, who has a delicate, most refined face-that of a gentleman in its fullest sense-talked for a time; they sang again, and then all their little heads were turned towards the entrance and it was evident that their hearts were full of expectancy and they longed to see the One who had promised to come to visit them.  The oldest of these children were not over fifteen-from that down to babies in the arms-all ages and kinds, clothed cleanly in clothes that had no fit, or were misfits rather.
At last there was a silence.  Then all arose to their feet as 'Abdu'l-Bahá quickly entered and walked up the narrow centre passage to the front and stood.  Mons. Dreyfus-Barney and Tamaddunu'l-Mulk took their places on the side.  Mons. Dreyfus-Barney acted as interpreter.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "I am very glad to be here with you.  I am very glad to see you all here.  I love you very much.  I have been in many beautiful houses, but this is more beautiful to me than any of the others, for the spirit of the love of Bahá'u'lláh is here.  You are all receiving the teachings of God and learning how to act and live and some day you will be great and wise for having learned the truth.  I have seen many beautiful rich children, but to me you are more beautiful, and I love you all (as Christ loved little children) here.  Monsieur and Madam Ponsonaille are your spiritual teachers.  They give you food and understanding eternal of God, while your parents are giving you your material food and care for your bodies.  You must love these good friends."  Turning to Monsieur and Madam Ponsonaille, he said:  "This is a great work you are doing for the love of God in this great day, through the power of Bahá'u'lláh.  Your station is great.  Your names will go down through all the ages.  Kings and Queens have never been talked of and remembered as you will be.  You are workers in the Kingdom of Abhá and I am very happy and love you very much."  Then with his head upturned and the palms of his hands upturned together, as if to receive in them the pouring down of the Holy Spirit, he chanted a prayer and blessing, and coming down from the small elevation, on which he was standing, to where the children were, all crowded close around him, and laying his hands caressingly upon some of their heads and taking the hands of others with a loving smile to all, with difficulty he passed down the aisle to the door.  Near me were some rough boys whom
page 12
I was often obliged to quiet before 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered the hall.  But after he came they never moved nor spoke and when he passed out they fell over each other in their great desire to have him take their hands.
Outside the door stood Mons. Ponsonaille, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, putting his hand inside his gown, took out many gold pieces and gave to him as he bade him good-bye.  He walked down the street toward the carriage so quickly that our little party was at least twenty feet behind.  Oh! what a sight.  In every doorway and window were people-and such people!  A very poor man held the carriage door open as 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered with his little party, Mons. and Madam Dreyfus-Barney and Tamaddunu'l-Mulk.  The crowd were fighting and calling names but a gendarme and Mons. De Scott protected us as we passed on safely.
So ended a never-to-be-forgotten day, having seen 'Abdu'l-Bahá among the children of the poor of the streets of Paris and I thought again of the light I saw twice on Fridays in 'Akká and wondered if they were missing him and longing for his return and loving help.  The thought comes to me now of what the world's poverty will be after his departure and to us who have been fed from his hand on the Bread of Life.


II:19, 2 March 1912
page 3
Aims and ambitions of Bahá'ís
Spoken by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Paris, 6 November 1911
I.	Pity and good-will towards all mankind.
II.	The rendering of service to humanity.
III.	To guide and enlighten hearts.
IV.	Each member must try to be kind to everyone and to show forth great affection towards every living soul.
V.	Humility towards God and constant prayer to Him so as to be enabled to grow daily "Nearer God".
VI.	Always in every word and action to be faithful and sincere, so that each member may be known to the world as embodying the qualities of Sincerity, Faith, Kindness, Love, Generosity and Bravery.  That we may be detached from all that is not God, attracted by the Heavenly Breath, divine beings-so that the world may know that a Bahá'í is a perfect being.
Some teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
From Discourses given in London and Paris
These are wonderful days!  We see an Eastern guest received with love and courtesy in the West.  I have been drawn here, in spite of my ill health, by the magnet of your love and sympathy.
Some years ago an ambassador was sent from Persia to London where he stayed five years. (His name was 'Abdu'l Hasan Khán.)  When he returned to Persia they asked him to tell them about the English people.  He answered:  "I do not know the English people.  Although I have been in London five years, I have only met the people of the Court."  This man was a great man in Persia, and scent to England by princes, and yet he did not know the people, although he lived among them five years.  Now I, a prisoner, come to England for the first time, and although my visit is so short, I have already met many dear friends and I can say I know the people.  Those I have met are true souls working for peace and unity.  Think of this subject:  What a difference there is between this time we are living in now, and seventy years ago!  Think of the progress! the progress toward unity and peace!
It is God's will that the differences between nations should disappear.  Those who help the Cause of Unity on, are doing God's work.  Unity is the Divine Bounty of this brilliant century.  Praise be to God, there are many societies and many meetings held for Unity.  Hatred is not so much the cause
page 4
of separation now as it used to be; the cause of disunion now is mostly prejudice.
__________
Heaven has blessed this day.  It was said that London should be a place for a great proclamation of the Message.  I was tired when I boarded the steamer, but when I reached London and beheld the faces of the believers, my fatigue left me.  Your great love refreshes me.  I am very pleased with the English believers.
The feeling that existed between the East and the West is changing in the Light of Bahá'u'lláh's teaching.  It used to be that if a Westerner drank from the cup of an Easterner the cup would be thought polluted, and the Easterner would break it.  Now it is, with believers, that when a Westerner dines with an Easterner, the vessels and the plates that he has used are kept apart and reverenced in his memory.
One day some soldiers came to the house of a believer and asked for one of his guests to be brought to them, that they might take him to his execution, according to their warrant.  The host gave himself up in his guest's place and was killed in his stead.  This is an instance of true brotherly love.
__________
Be kind to all strangers.  Those who come from all parts of the world, make them feel at home.  Speak to those from Turkey, Japan, Persia, China, all countries, find out where they live, ask if you can be of service to them.  The English are so polite and conventional that to Easterners they often seem cold.  You must forget conventionality when you speak with them, they are not accustomed to these ways.
When you see a foreigner, perhaps you think he is a thief, or even a murderer; you think you must be careful.  Don't think of yourself.  Even if what you suspect be true, still go out of your way to be kind to them-it will help them to become better.
Let those who meet you know without your saying so that you are a Bahá'í.  You must manifest the most sincere love for all.  Your hearts must burn with love for all.  Let the people see that you are filled with universal love.  If you meet a Persian, talk with him without ceremony, ask where he lives and try to help him.  Likewise speak to all strangers who seem lonely and give them your willing service.  Be loving to them, Turks, Arabs, Indians, Chinese, Americans, Japanese-all.  If they are poor, help them with money; if they are sad, comfort them; if they are distraught, quiet them; till all the world shall see that you have in truth the universal love.  It is all very well for you to say that you agree with all this, that it is good-but you must put it into practice.
__________
The "reality" of man is thought-not his material body.  Although man is part of the animal creation, he possesses a power of thought superior to the rest of the created beings.  If his thought is directed continually towards
page 5
heavenly subjects, he becomes saintly; if, on the other hand, his thought does not soar above things of this world, he is little better than an animal.
Thought is of two kinds:
a)	Thought that belongs entirely to the world of thought.
b)	Thought that results in action.
The thoughts of our Lord Jesus Christ belonged to a high spiritual world, but he also brought them into the world of action.
Some men and women have exalted thoughts, but if they do not realize them in the world of action, they are useless.  The power of thought is dependent on manifestation in the world of action.
Nevertheless in the world of progress and evolution thought has an effect, even if it is not always expressed in action.  To this class of thought the majority of philosophers give expression; their thoughts are above their actions, too high for them to live up to themselves.  The difference between philosophers and spiritual teachers is this:  Spiritual teachers follow their own teaching, bring down into the world of action their spiritual conceptions and ideals, whereas mere philosophers do not.  We often find philosophers emphasize the importance of Justice, while in their private lives they are most unjust (Alexander and Aristotle).  This state is impossible with spiritual teachers.  No man can separate himself from his thought.
__________
In order to bring about a state of peace and unity three things are necessary:
(a)  To know.  (b)  To have the intention.  (c)  To put into practice.
Unity is good.  To know this is not sufficient.  You must intend to promote it, you must work for it.  Knowledge is a good thing, but it is only the first step.  If knowledge is alone it is stationary.  These meetings teach us that Unity is good, and that suppression (slavery under the yoke of traditions and prejudices) is the cause of disunion.  To know this is not enough.  All knowledge is good, but it can bear no fruit but by action.  It is well to know that riches are good, but that knowledge will not make a man rich; he must work, he must put his knowledge into practice.  We hope the people will realize and know that Unity is good, and we also hope that they will not be content to stand still in that knowledge.  Do not only say that Unity, Love and Brotherhood are good; you must work for their realization.
The Czar of Russia promoted The Hague Peace Conference and proposed the decrease in armament for all nations.  In this Conference it was proved that Peace was beneficial to all countries, and war destroyed trade, etc.  The Czar made a very good speech, though after it was over he, himself, was the first to declare war (against Japan).
Knowledge is not enough.  We hope by the Love of God we shall put it into practice.  A spiritual universal force is needed for this.  Meetings are good for engendering spiritual force.  To know that to reach a state of per-
page 6
fection is possible is good, to march forward on the path is better.  We know that to help the poor and to be merciful is good and pleases God, but knowledge alone does not feed the starving man, nor can the poor be warmed by knowledge or words, in the bitter winter.
__________
The magnet of your love brought me here.  My hope is that the Divine Light may shine here, and that the Heavenly Star of Bahá'u'lláh may strengthen you, so that you may be the cause of the Oneness of Humanity, that you may help to make the darkness of superstition and prejudice disappear and unite all creeds and all nations.
We have had wars and disputes for over 6,000 years.  Even if we look on this state of affairs as an experiment, surely it is sufficient, surely it is time to stop.  This is a brilliant century.  Eyes are open now to the Beauty of the Oneness of Humanity, of Love and Brotherhood.  The darkness of suppression will disappear and the Light of Unity will shine.  We cannot bring Love and Unity to pass only by talk.  Knowledge is not enough.  Wealth, science, education are good, we know that, but we must also work and study.
Knowledge is the first step; Resolve, the second step; Action, the fulfilment, is the third step.  To make a building, first of all one must make a plan, then one must have the power (money) to build, then, after all these preparations, one can build.  One forms a Society of Unity-that is good-but meetings and talk are not enough.  In Egypt these meetings take place, there is only talk and no result.  These meetings here in London are good, the knowledge and the intention are good, but how can there be a result without action?  Today the force for Unity is the Holy Spirit of Bahá'u'lláh.  He manifested this Spirit of Unity.  Bahá'u'lláh brings East and West together.  Go back, search history, you will not find a precedent for this.
__________
The Universal Races Congress was good.  The result of it was intended to be the furtherance and progress of Unity among all nations, a better international understanding.  The purpose was good.  The causes of disputes among different nations are always due to one of the following classes of prejudices:
(a)  Racial, language.	(c)  Personal.
(b)  Theological.	(d)  "Beliefs", customs, traditions.
It requires a universal active force to overcome these differences.  A small lamp could light a room, a larger could light a whole house, a larger still could shine through the city, but the sun is needed to light the whole world.  A small disease needs a small remedy, but a disease which pervades the whole body needs a very strong remedy.
The differences in languages cause disunion between nations.  There must be one universal language.  The diversity in Faiths is also a cause of separation.  The true foundation of all Faiths must be established, the outer differences abolished.  There must be a Oneness of Faith.  To end all these dif-
page 7
ferences is a very hard task.  The whole world is sick-this is a very bad illness to cure.
__________
The world is wrong, just because people talk too much and do not carry out their ideals.  If action took the place of words, the worlds would change very soon.  A man who does good and does not talk about it is perfect.  The man who does very little good and magnifies it in his speech, is not good.  If I love you, you know it, I need not tell you all the time; on the other hand, if I did not love you, you would know it also, and you would not believe me if I said I did love you a thousand times.  People speak too much because they seek fame, because they wish to be thought better than their brethren.  Those who do most good say the least about it.
Look at the Italians for instance.  They speak a great deal about humanitarianism and socialism, and yet see how disgracefully they have behaved towards the Turks.  But why should we blame them?  I hope you will always avoid tyranny and oppression, and that you will always uphold and practice justice towards all men and keep your hearts pure.  That is what I expect of you.
__________
The great causes of separation among the people are:
(a)  Racial.	(c)  Religious.	(e)  Personal.
(b)  Political.	(d)  Traditional.	(f)  Commercial prejudices.
Bahá'u'lláh has abolished these.  None can say that this is not good.  Anyone who denies this is ignorant.  God has created the world as one-the boundaries are marked out by man.  God has not divided the lands.  Each man has his house and meadow; horses and dogs do not divide the fields into shares.  That is why Bahá'u'lláh says:  "Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country, let him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind."  All are one family, one race.  All are human beings.  Differences as to partition of lands should not be the cause of separation among the people.  One of the great reasons of separation is colour.  Look how this prejudice has power in America, for instance.  See how they hate one another!  Think over this.  Animals do not quarrel because of their colour!  Surely man should not, who is so much higher in creation.  What ignorance exists.  White doves do not quarrel with other doves that are blue, because of their colour but white men fight with dark coloured men.  This racial prejudice is the worst of all.
All are one.  In the Old Testament it says that God created man like unto His own image.  In the Qur'án it says:  "There is no difference in the creation of God!"  Think well.  God has created all, cares for all, and all are under His protection.  The policy of God is better than our policy.  We are not as wise as He.
__________
Disease is of two kinds:  (a)  Material (b)  Spiritual.  For instance, a cut of the hand; if you pray for the cut to be healed, and do not stop it bleeding, you will not do much good, this needs a material remedy.
page 8
Sometimes if the nervous system is paralyzed through fear, a spiritual remedy is necessary.  Madness, incurable otherwise, can be cured through prayer, but an abscess cannot be cured by prayer alone.  Extreme cases need prayer.  It often happens that sorrow makes one ill.  That can be cured by spiritual means.  Blindness is physical, not spiritual.  They say our Lord cured blindness; it was blindness of the soul.  ("They have eyes and see not, ears they have and hear not.")  He brought on spiritual awakening.1
__________
All healing is of God.  There are two classes of causes for illness:  (a)  Material, (b)  Spiritual.  If the sickness is of the body, a material remedy is needed; if of the soul, then a spiritual remedy.
All is in God's hands.  Aristotle made a special study of the digestion, but he died of a gastronomic malady.  Avisen was a specialist of the heart, but he died of heart disease.  Dinradi (?) was a thorax specialist-he died of consumption.  God is the only all powerful doctor.
Kings have all the power the world and man can give them, yet sometimes God shows them their feebleness and dependence on Him by allowing them to be in need of a very little thing.  The elephant, the largest animal and the strongest, is troubled most of all by the fly.  The lion has a worm that troubles him greatly.  If man looks at nature he will see that all that exists is captive.  All are dependent.  Man, to begin with the highest of all created beings, is dependent on a great many things for his life.  The first is air; a few moments without air would be sufficient to kill him.  Then he is dependent on water, food, clothing, warmth and many things.  See how he is surrounded by dangers of all sorts and illnesses.  It is the same with all created beings, animals, plants; look how much is necessary to their existence!  All that exists is feeble, poor, captive.  The freedom of man depends alone on his spiritual power.  All that exists are prisoners of nature.  Consider the sun, that enormous, powerful globe around which we travel, even he cannot escape the law of nature-he cannot move out of his course or shade his radiance-and again the sea cannot escape, she has no will of her own.  Only man is enabled by Divine Power to control, in a small degree, the laws of nature.  It is the natural law for man to live on land, yet he sails on the sea.  It is natural for man to rest on terra firma, yet he flies.  It is natural for a man to walk no faster than three or four miles an hour-he makes himself engines which take him sixty or more miles an hour.  It is natural for a man to be able to speak with another at a distance of ten yards, but he makes himself the telephone and telegraph with which he can speak and send messages to a distance of a hundred, of a thousand and more miles.  In these cases nature is the prisoner of man.
Look what great power God has given man and yet how sad it is that so much ignorance still remains.
I hope you will always be the cause of revealing the Divine Light to the people and that the power of the Spirit will lead you into the Kingdom of God.


III:1, 21 March 1912
page 3
Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh
From discourses given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in London and Paris.
The first principle of the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is
The Search after Truth.
In order to search after the Truth, men must shut their eyes to all the traditional superstitions of the past.
The Jews have traditional superstitions, the Christians also; also the Zoroastrians, the Buddhists.  All religions are bound by traditions and dogma, all consider they themselves are right and the rest are wrong.  The Jews believe themselves to be the only possessors of the Truth and condemn all other religions; the Christians say their religion is the only true one and all others are false; likewise the Buddhists and Muslims, all limit themselves.  If all condemn one another, where can we search for Truth?  All contradict one another, all cannot be true.  If each considers their Religion as the only true one, it is impossible for them to see the Truth in the others.
If a Jew is bound by the external practice of the Religion of Israel, he can never understand that Truth can exist in any other Religion but his own.  We must, therefore, detach ourselves from forms and external practices of Religion if we wish to see the Truth and reality of others.  We must abandon the prejudices of tradition.
If a Zoroastrian believes that the Sun is God, how can he be united to other religions?  The idolators believe in their idols, how can they understand the Unity of God?
It is clear then that in order to search after Truth we must detach ourselves from superstition.  If all men would follow this principle, Truth would be found and they would have a clear vision.
If five people meet together to search for Truth, they must begin by putting aside their own special convictions and renounce their own prejudices.  In order to find Truth we must give up our small ideas.  The fact that we imagine ourselves to be right and every one else to be wrong, is the greatest obstacle in the path of Unity, and Unity is necessary if we desire to find Truth.
Therefore we must renounce our own particular prejudices and superstitions if we are in earnest in our search for Truth.  Unless we make a distinct division between dogma, superstition, prejudice, on the one hand, and Truth on the other, we shall never succeed.  When we wish to find a thing we search for it everywhere, therefore we must carry this principle out in our search for Truth.
Science must be accepted.  Light is good in whatever lamp it is burning; a rose is beautiful in whatever garden it grows; a star has the same radiance from whatever point it rises.
Have no prejudices.  You trust love the Sun wherever it rises.  If the Sun of Truth shines in Jesus, it has also shone in Moses and in
page 4
Buddha.  That is what is meant by the Search for Truth.
It means also that we must put aside all we have learned before and recommence our education.  We must not be attached to any one religion or personality, for fear of at last becoming bound by superstition.  When we are once detached we can seek the Truth and arrive at our goal.  Then we shall see Truth in the reality of all religions, for Truth is in all.
The first discovery we make in our search for Truth will lead us to the Unity of Mankind.
The second principle
The Unity of Mankind
Yesterday I spoke to you of the First Principle of the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh, the Search after Truth.  It is necessary for a man to put aside all he believed before in the nature of traditional superstition and regard all religions as equal.  He must not love and cling to one, and detest another.  He must search for Truth in all, and if his search be earnest he will succeed.
The Second Principle is the Unity of Mankind.  All are servants of the One God-and God reigns over all and has pleasure in all alike.  All men are of one family, the crown of humanity rests on the head of each man.  In the eyes of the Creator all are equal.  He is kind to all, He does not favour this nation or that nation, all are His creatures.  If this is so, why should we divide one race from another, creating superstitions, differences between one people and another?
The only difference between men is the difference in degree.  Some are like children, who are ignorant and must be educated and reared to maturity; some are like the sick and must be treated with tenderness and care.  None are bad or evil.  We must not feel repelled by these poor children, we must be kind, we must teach the ignorant and tend the sick.
Consider:  Unity is the cause of existence, love is the cause of life; and on the other hand separation is the cause of death.  In the world of creation, for instance, all things owe their existence to Unity.  The elements which compose wood, stone or minerals, are held together by the Law of Attraction; if the law ceases to hold these elements together, if they are separated, then the object will not exist.  The law of attraction has brought together certain elements in the form of this flower, but as soon as the law of attraction is withdrawn from this centre, the flower will decompose.
So it is with humanity.  The great Law of Attraction, Harmony and Unity forms this wonderful creation.  When the law is no longer active on the body of a man, he dies.  So it is evident that attraction, unity, harmony and love are the causes of life, whereas repulsion, disunion, in-harmony and hatred cause death.
We have seen that whatever causes separation in the world of existence causes death.  Therefore, it is the same in the world of the spirit.
All who are servants of the one God must be united in the law of attraction.  They must, therefore, avoid all hatred, disagreement and discord.
We find, if we look at nature, that the gentler animals group together, the lambs, the deer-and also that the wild animals live apart from civilization in the forest, the tiger, the lion and the wolf.  Two wolves can live together, but a thousand lambs can share the same fold and remain at peace.  Two eagles can dwell in the same place, while a thousand doves can make their habitation together.  Man should at least be numbered among the gentler animals-but when he becomes ferocious, Ah well!
The point is this:  Bahá'u'lláh has proclaimed the Unity of the World of Mankind.
page 5
All people are of one family, and all should feel to one another as father, mother, sister, daughter.
I hope you will spread this teaching of Bahá'u'lláh.
Bahá'u'lláh has said that if it were possible one should love one's enemy and act the same towards him as though he were a friend.  If all followed this principle, the greatest Unity and understanding would be established in the hearts of men.
The third principle
Unity of Religion and Science
Yesterday I spoke to you of the Second Principle of the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh, the Unity o£ Mankind.  The first, as I have said, is the Search after Truth.  The third is the acceptance of the Relation between Religion and Science.
There is no contradiction existing between True Religion and Science.  When a Religion is opposed to Science it becomes mere superstition.  How can a man believe that which Science has proved impossible?  If he believes in spite of his reason it is rather ignorant superstition than faith.
The origin of Science and Religion is identical.  Religious principles have all been based on Science.  The Unity of God is logical and can be understood through scientific study.  All religions teach that we must do good.  This is logical, the only way humanity can progress.  We must be generous, sincere, faithful, law-abiding.  All this is reasonable.  All religious laws conform to reason and are logically suited to the people for whom they are made and for the time in which they are practiced.
Religion has two principal parts:  (a)  Practical and (b)  Spiritual.  The spiritual part never changes.  All the manifestations of God and the Prophets have taught the same truths and have given the same spiritual law.  The Sun of Truth has sent forth many rays to illumine the human intelligence, the light is, always the same.  They all teach the same code of morality.  There is no division in the Truth.
The practical part of religion deals with outer forms and ceremonies.  This is the material part of the law and guides the customs of the people.
In the time of Moses there were ten offences deserving capital punishment.  When the Christ came the law was changed.  The old law, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, was changed to one of mercy and forbearance.  In the old days the punishment for theft was the cutting off of the right hand; in our days this law could not be applied.  Nowadays he who curses his father is allowed to live; then he was put to death.
So we see that, whereas the spiritual law of religion never changes, the practical law treating with actions changes with the necessities of the time.
It is the spiritual and moral part of religious law that is the most important of the two.  All questions of morality contained in the law of every religion are logically right.  If religion is contrary to logic, then it is no longer a religion but merely a tradition.  This is certain.  Therefore, put all your beliefs in harmony with science.  There must be no opposition.  Religion and science are the two wings with which man's intelligence can soar into the heights.  It is not possible to fly with one wing alone.
All religions of the present day have fallen into superstitious practices, which are out of harmony both with true principles of the teaching they represent and with the scientific discoveries of the time.  This has the effect of making people think that science and religion must of necessity be opposed to one another.
If religion conformed to science, there would be a great unifying, cleansing force in the world which would sweep before it all wars and disagreement, all disunion and in-harmony, and men would be united in the power of the love of God.


III:2, 9 April 1912
page 3
Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh (continued)
From discourses given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in London and Paris.
The fourth principle1
Abolition of Prejudices
Another principle of the teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is this:  That you must renounce all prejudices-religious, racial, political and national-for all these have made the world sick.
This is a grave illness and one that can be the cause of destruction to humanity.  All wars and bloodshed have been caused by either of these prejudices.  The sad wars that you see in the world in these days are caused by fanatical religious hatred of one people for another or prejudices of race and colour.  Till all these differences are abolished humanity will never be at peace.  That is why Bahá'u'lláh has said that these causes of separation are destructive to humanity.
Consider the nations of so-called religious people.  If they were really adorers of God they would obey His law which forbids them to kill one another.  All religions teach that men should love one another and that a man must look to his own faults before he condemns another; that he must not think himself superior to his fellows, for we know not in the end who will be judged the best.  How many men there have been who began a saintly career and finally fell to the greatest humiliation.  Look at Judas Iscariot, how well he began and how sadly he failed in the end.  On the other hand, remember Paul the Apostle.  He was an enemy of Christ, but he became the best of His servants.  Therefore we must keep in mind that it is wrong to judge others.  The end of man is not known to us.  How can we think ourselves superior to anyone?  We must, therefore, have no prejudices.  We must never say:  "I am a believer, he is an infidel; I am of the elect, he is an outcast."  We can never tell the final judgement.  We must not judge, we must give help to those who are not so blessed as we are.  We must instruct the ignorant, we must tend the child and bring it to maturity.  When we see a man in the depths, we must take him by the hand and lift him to our side.  We must think of those who have fallen as our friends, not our enemies.
The prejudice of race is mere superstition, for God created us all men of one race.  In the beginning there were no limits, no boundaries put to the different lands.  There should be no different nations, we are all men, all descendants of Adam.  We must not think of a man as an Englishman or a Frenchman or a Persian.  This is all mere superstition.
How can we uphold a war that is caused by superstition?  God has not made men to destroy one another.
In the eyes of God all races, tribes, sects and classes are equal.  He sees no difference in them.  The only difference existing between men in God's sight is in the degree of service.  The lovers of humanity, these are the superior beings, of whatever race, creed
page 4
or colour.  There are some who shine as lamps and there are others who rise like stars in the sky of humanity.  In short, the only difference existing between men is this, there are earthly men and heavenly men.  God does not ask if a man comes from the East or West, from the North or South.
A great cause of division among the people is the political prejudice.  There are people who find pleasure in causing discord.  These people love only their own country, even to the destruction of others.  They collect armies and send them to destroy other nations in order to achieve worldly fame, for the joy of hearing people say:  "Such a country has defeated another and brought it under the yoke of a superior government."  This glory is bought at the price of blood, and yet it is not lasting.  Those who have triumphed will in their turn be conquered, and those who are subjected will in due time become victorious.  Consider the history of the past.  How many times has the French nation conquered the German nation, and yet France herself has been conquered by Germany.  It is the same when we remember the past relations between England and this country.
As these victories are only temporary, why do men attach so much importance to them and shed blood for their sake?
Man should be an example of the power of Divine Teaching and faithful to the law.  Why does he put all his effort into destruction and separation?
I hope that in this luminous century the Divine Light will shed radiance over the whole world and that the Divine Bounty will seek out every man.  The Light of the Sun of Truth is for all.  Humanity will be freed from the chains of prejudice and superstition.
We must follow God's policy.  Man's politics are weak, but the policy of God, the Creator of all, is strong; it is the best and we must follow His example.  He gives alike to all of His Divine Bounty-we are all His servants.  The servant follows his master's example.
I pray the Kingdom shall come on earth, that the shadow shall disappear before the radiance of the Sun of Truth.
The fifth principle
Equality of Sexes
God has created all creatures in couples.  In the vegetable, animal and human kingdom, all are of two sexes, and there is absolute equality between them.
In the vegetable world there are male plants and female plants.  Both have equal rights, there is no difference between them.  Each possess an equal share of the beauty of their species.
In the animal world all are male or female.  Each have equal rights and there is no difference between them, they each share the advantages of their kind.
In all these realms of nature the sexes have equal rights; but when we come to the world of humanity we see a difference.
This difference is caused by education.  In God's creation neither is superior to the other, there is no distinction, no difference.  Why do men make a difference?
The capacity of women is the same as men; if she were educated with the same advantages the result would be the same; in fact women have a superior disposition to men, they are more receptive, more sensitive, their intuition is more intense.  The only reason of their present backwardness in some directions is because they have not had the same educational advantages as men.
In the necessities of life women are superior to men, they are the cause of existence of men themselves.
If a mother is well educated, her children will also be well taught.  If the mother is wise, the children will be wise; if the mother is religious, the children will also be religious.  If the mother is a good woman, then the children will also be good.  The future generation depends then on the mothers of today.  Is not this a vital position of responsibility, for women?
Surely God does not wish such an important
page 5
instrument as woman to be less perfect than she is able to become!  Divine justice demands that men and women should have equal rights, there is no difference between them, neither sex is superior to the other in the sight of God.
Nearness to God depends not on sex but on the luminosity of the heart; he or she with the greatest faith, these are near to God.  Women must try then to attain greater perfection to be man's equal in the world, to make such progress that men will be forced to own them as their equals in every respect.  In Europe women have made greater progress than in the East, though they are not yet physically as far advanced as men.  It is my hope that they may progress rapidly until humanity will be perfected.
God's Bounty is for all and makes all progress.  Soon men will have to acknowledge women as their equals and there will be no need to struggle for their rights.
When children have finished their studies for the term, an examination is given them and it is by the result of this examination that one can tell their knowledge and capacity.  So it is with women.  Let actions show one's power, there is no need to speak of it.
One of the Principles then of the teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is the Equality of Sex.  Women must make the greatest efforts to attain human virtue and to bring about the Unity of Mankind.
They must struggle to spread the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh among the people, so that the Light of the 'Divine Bounty may envelop their souls.
The sixth principle
Equalization of Means of Livelihood
Among the most important principles of the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is the equalization of the means of living among men.
There are in the world at present numerous cases of men who are either too poor or too rich.  While some live in palaces, others have nowhere to lay their head; some have many courses at their meals, while others scarcely have enough bread to keep them alive.  This state of affairs is wrong and must be remedied.
The remedy, however, cannot consist in the bringing to pass of equality, absolute equality among men; this would be impossible.  There is needed some organization which will bring about an order in this disorder.  Equality is a mere dream and absolutely impracticable.  If Equality existed the whole order of the world would be destroyed.  In mankind there is always a difference in degree.  Since creation men have never been the same.  Some have superior intelligence, others are more ordinary and some are devoid of intellect.  How can there ever exist equality between those who are clever and those who are not?  Humanity is like an army.  An army must have a general, captains and soldiers, each with their appointed duties; it cannot consist of generals only, or captains, or soldiers only-there must be degrees in the organization.
Lycurgus, the philosopher sovereign of Sparta, intended to promote the welfare of his country.  He wished to equalize the means of living in Sparta.  So he divided the inhabitants into three divisions.  The first third was composed of his own family and relatives.  Of these he made governors and chiefs and gave them power over the people-of the second third, which consisted of the people dwelling in the country parts of Sparta, a class of agriculturists who cultivated the land and possessed large farms.  The third class was that of the workmen and farm labourers and men of trade.  The first class consisted of nine thousand people, and those who belonged to this third were superior to the rest of their countrymen and profited by exemption from the laws which bound the lower classes.  These were the chiefs of the people and controlled the government and politics of the Spartans.  They held the balance of peace or war in their hands; though if war were carried on they were not obliged to take part in it if
page 6
they did not wish to do so.  The children of the nine thousand were sent to school at the age of six years old and there they were taught the use of arms and the art of war.  When they had completed their military education at the age of twenty years they were fitted to rule and take part in the government of the country.  Sparta was divided into nine thousand parts and each part was governed by a member of the superior class.  The second third, the farmer class, were obliged to give a tenth part of their produce to the government; the third class also were forced to give an annual tax to the government.  Lycurgus made the Spartans swear that they would maintain the same order of government when he left the country and that they would not alter it till his return.  Having secured their oath, he left Sparta and never returned.  Lycurgus renounced his high position for the good of his country, for the equalization of property.  After a time all was destroyed, his constitution came to an end.  Equality is impossible.
Some are too rich, some are too poor, some have millions and some have nothing.  An organization is necessary to control this state of affairs.  It is necessary to limit riches or it is necessary to limit poverty.  Either extreme is wrong.  There should be a medium state.  If it is right for a capitalist to possess a great fortune, then it is also just that a workman should have means of existence.  If poverty is allowed to reach a condition of starvation, it proves that there is a tyranny.  Men must see that this does not happen in any case.  There must be special laws.  The rich must give of their plenty.  If they have more than they need they must think of those who are in want.
The government of a country should make laws which conform to the Divine Law.  The Law of God exacts that there should be neither excessive wealth nor excessive poverty.
The seventh principle
The Power of the Holy Spirit
In the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh it is written:  "Whatever progress is made by man, he always needs the Power of the Holy Spirit, for the power of man is limited and the Divine Power is without limit."
In history we see that all truly great men who have helped on the progress of humanity have been inspired by the Holy Spirit.  Often these men were, at first, insignificant.
The Prophets of God have not all come out of learned schools of philosophy, they were mostly men of simple origin, lacking the knowledge of reading and writing.  The power by which they were raised above men, and by which they became teachers of the Truth, was the Power of the Holy Spirit.  Their influence on humanity, by virtue of this power, was great and penetrating.
Now look at the philosophers in comparison, men of great learning and abnormal intellect:  Plato, Aristotle, Pliny and Socrates-their influence on the world of humanity was limited and restrained.  Plato with all his wonderful knowledge and philosophy never moved a man to the extent that he would sacrifice his life for the teaching, while simple men filled with the Holy Spirit influenced humanity to such an extent that thousands would die to uphold their teaching.  The Prophets of Juda and Israel:  Jeremiah, Isaiah, were simple men, as also were the Apostles of Christ.  Peter, the chief of the Apostles; did not know how to count the days of the week.  He used to divide the produce of his fishing into seven parts, and when, having taken one part a day for use, he arrived at the seventh portion, he knew it was the Sabbath Day.  Consider this and then think of his future state, to what glory he was brought through the influence of the Holy Spirit.  Whoever, then, receives this Power is able to influence all with whom he is in contact.  The greatest philosopher without this Spirit is powerless; his soul is lifeless, his heart dead.  Till the Holy Spirit breathes in his soul he can do no good work.
No philosophy, no system, has ever changed the mangers and customs of the people for the better.  The morals of the philosophers who are not enlightened by the Divine Spirit
page 7
are inferior.  An ignorant man, filled with the Holy Spirit, is powerful.  He who is educated by the Holy Spirit, can in his turn educate others in the same Spirit.
I pray for you that you may be helped by the Holy Spirit and that you may receive the education thereof.
The life and morals of a spiritual man are in themselves an education to others.  Let your thoughts, words and actions bring life to those around you.  Do not think of your own limitations, dream only of the welfare of the Kingdom of Abhá.  See the influence of Jesus Christ among His apostles, then consider their influence on others.  These simple men were helped by the Power of the Holy Spirit.  So may you receive the Divine Assistance.  Our capabilities are limited, but the help of the Kingdom of Abhá is limitless.
The earth of itself has no properties of life, but it is fertilized by the sun and the rain.  The earth must not consider its own limited power.  Likewise may you be given life, may the rain of the Divine Mercy and the sun of Truth make your gardens fruitful, so that many beautiful flowers of exquisite fragrance and hue may blossom there in abundance.
Turn your minds away from your own forces, your own selves, and make your souls ready to receive, to overflowing, the Divine Power of the Spirit and the blessings of the Infinite Bounty.
If you thus keep yourselves in readiness you will become to the world of humanity a burning flame, a star of guidance, a fruitful tree.  I pray that you may receive the blessing of the Holy Spirit.  This is my counsel to you.
The eighth principle
Justice
In life man should hope for reward and fear punishment.  It is necessary that this hope and this fear should be considered by those in authority and those who have important posts in the government.  If the officials are not guided by these sentiments, it is to be feared that they will not act as they ought to.
This hope and fear are like pillars that support the altitude of the world.  There is no better prevention of tyranny than these two sentiments, hope and fear.  In reactionary governments where fear does not exist, the administration is badly managed.
There are both political and spiritual consequences.  A man who takes into consideration spiritual consequences is a perfect government official.  If a man is guided by religious feeling and by the respect of the law, he will act in a perfect manner.
A minister of government, if he is guided by Divine faith, will always act for the good, above all if he knows that the consequences of his act are without limit.  Such a man will detach himself from tyranny and will work for Justice.
If men believed that they will reap the consequences of their actions in the next world, they would never act contrary to Justice.  You see then how important it is that a minister of state should be religious.
At the same time religious interests should not be brought into politics.  Religions should treat of morals; politics of material circumstances.  Those in authority should occupy themselves with the lives of men, they should teach ideas of service, good morals and develop the habit of Justice.  "Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's."  In Persia there are among the most important ministers of state religious men who fear divine punishment; the others, however, do not think of the consequences of their acts.  This is the reason why they have great difficulties in Persia.
Friends of God, set forth the example of justice!  Justice is a universal quality.  From the highest to the lowest justice should be sacred:  from the sovereign to the merchant, the minister of state to the artisan, all must be just.  Be just, respect the rights of each man-"do unto others as you would have them do unto you."  A workman who commits an injustice is as much to blame as a tyrant.  Each one of us can choose between justice and injustice.
I hope you will be just in your relations with others, that you will never harm your fellows, that you will respect the rights of all men, and above all consider the rights of others before your own.


III:1, 21 March 1912
page 6
Why a new Revelation?
Ellen V. Beecher
The followers of Bahá'u'lláh, especially in America, are constantly confronted with the vital question:  Is not Christianity complete in itself?  And this query is quite worthy of consideration by all inquiring minds in the religious world.  It is conceded by those who are alert to Truth, and interested in history; as well as the events of this present age, that through the influence of Christianity a large part of mankind has become more or less civilized, refined and educated; while its teachers and missionaries are still putting forth mighty efforts to spread its teaching far and wide.
Why then do we need another Revelation from God at this time?
Is Christianity complete in itself?  The word Christianity covers much that Jesus the Christ would not recognize nor endorse.  Under its head are man-made creeds upon creeds, with dogmas many, and philosophies untold.  Very much is and has ever been taught about Christ, and what He intended to give humanity by His life, teaching and death, but His deep, vital, and far reaching work has not yet been fully grasped by the so-called Christian world, so that in a measure His ministry has been a seeming failure after these two thousand years, as far as the salvation or unity of mankind is concerned.
It was believed by Christ's followers that He was a perfected Being, inspired by God himself as a world Saviour, and He certainly was all of this.  In and of Himself, and His message, was all that man required to enable him to unfold to his highest possibilities as man "in the Image of God" for all Eternity.  But the failure has come about on man's part, for he has not grasped the inner or spiritual meaning of the Word, which was from the beginning, and which "was God".  It has rather been Jesus the divine man which has been worshiped more than the Word.
Prom all time Infinite Mind has revealed Himself as the Living Word in the flesh, but it has been unheard or overlooked by the masses.  The Word is One, and so simple that "A wayfaring man though a fool need not err therein."  It is by the Word that man is regenerated, made whole wherever and whenever it is perceived by his Soul.  And when he has been "born again" in reality, he comes into at-one-ment with the One Living God.  Then this world becomes to him a veritable rose garden as it were, and mankind one great soul in many bodies.
This has been the plan of the Almighty for man from all Eternity.  Should we then question His Love and Mercy in sending revelation upon revelation to this earth?  Has not His far reaching eye seen the utter failure on man's part to understand and appreciate the Christ teaching as It has appeared in the flesh again and again? and could He fail in making every effort to fulfil His promises in man?  Consequently the same Holy Spirit has again revealed the Truth which must resuscitate, and enkindle anew the fire of His Love in hearts.  Why should the so-called Christian world question the action of the Spirit, while branches of its own organization have been proclaiming for two thousand years that this same Christ would come again to prepare the world for the reign of Peace promised in the Garden of Eden?
Had the Christian religion brought about the fulfilment of these prophecies before the coming of Bahá'u'lláh?  What means this mighty tide working towards universal Peace and arbitration, of the world-wide conferences and congresses to discuss the possibilities of disarmament?  What has inspired the President of the United States to invite other great nations to unite in one common brotherhood, who shall have one purpose, that is to wipe out in due time all causes for war?
To those who have eyes to see or ears to hear the meanings of this movement are most clear and sure, for such souls have heard the voice of Him who has spoken all down the ages, and speaks today by His Word in Bahá'u'lláh.  What is the difference you ask between the teachings of Christ Jesus and Bahá'u'lláh that such a change should come as is proclaimed by the followers of the later Prophet?  All of the fundamental points set forth by the first of these great Manifestations is again presented by the latter.  The difference is not in the teaching, but in man's conception of the Word whenever it may be proclaimed.
Bahá'u'lláh, is the fulfilment of the Word
page 7
as revealed in Jesus, in Moses, and in Abraham.  Each Manifestation presents His message according to His own phraseology, perhaps best suited to the age of His advent, while each one was chosen to fill a certain station or office, through which He should minister to mankind.
Abraham, being absolutely obedient to the commands of God without question or hesitation, was proclaimed "the Father of all Nations".  Moses was the great Law Giver, upon whose commands all common law has been based ever since.  Jesus Christ came to sacrifice His life that the way for man back to God might be opened, or made clear; hence He vas called the Saviour of man.  While Bahá'u'lláh, is to fulfil all prophecy, and bring the world into the promised "Day of Peace", by giving laws and commands which will eventually rule and unite all governments, and remove all vital differences among, and between nations.  He has given searching admonitions which He said "descended from the Source of Majesty, through the tongue of Power and Strength upon the prophets of the past," and that "He hath taken Its essences and clothed them with the garment of brevity, as a favour to the beloved, that they may fulfil the covenant of God; that they may perform in themselves that which He has entrusted to them, and attain the victory by virtue of devotion in the land of the Spirit."
The first of these Hidden Words is "O Son of Spirit!  The first Counsel is:  Possess a good, pure and enlightened heart, that thou mayest possess a Kingdom Eternal, immortal, ancient, and without end."  And again:  "O Son of Man!  I loved thy creation, wherefore love Me, that 1 may acknowledge thee, and in the Spirit of life confirm thee."
In the "Book of Laws" written for all races and governments Bahá'u'lláh, has settled all social, political, and economic questions of this day so clearly, justly and effectually that all men will wonder as they are given to the world.  When He had revealed the message in full by writings many, He passed out of the body, leaving them to His Son 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whom He proclaimed as the Centre of God's Covenant with men, that he might interpret the meanings, and promote them as rapidly as possible.
Both Father and Son insist that progress shall be attained by natural growth, or unfolding of all great events, rather than by revolution, hence 'Abdu'l-Bahá is giving his life to the Cause, and the thousands of all nations and religions who have come to acknowledge the Oneness of God, and the brotherhood of man through his wonderful personality and teaching is a proof of his power and God-given commission.
Bahá'u'lláh, has proven the existence of the Lord of Glory, and made so plain His plans that the infidel and agnostic cannot fail of an understanding, if he sees fit to investigate its truths with a desire to know, and these facts cannot fail to break down all barriers between the so-called great religions of the world.
This revelation is not a new Religion but the very essence of God's Word as taught by the Christ, but not perceived by Christianity at large.
If there is no difference between the teaching of Christ and Bahá'u'lláh why then need we turn from the one to follow the other?
The same question has been asked at the appearing of every one of God's Prophets, and each one has been rejected by the former religions.  Jesus said that if the Jews had understood the message of Moses they would have accepted Him, for His coming had been proclaimed for thousands of years.  The personality of each Messenger becomes the stumbling stone over which the creatures of all ages have fallen, and in the fall have lost sight of the Creator, so in time darkness and materiality have covered the face of the earth, selfishness and greed have destroyed the Garden of God, until the few souls who are ever listening for His Voice and crying out for light and knowledge have prevailed.  Then in due time when the world has evolved to such a condition as is needful for His all wise purposes, another Prophet is sent with the Word of Life.
Had the priesthood of the former religions that exist today been listening only for the Word they would gladly receive the message of Bahá'u'lláh, for every condition which Christ and all other prophets proclaimed would prevail in "that Day" is now being fulfilled.  Why question the horizon from which the Light proceeds?  Search the Scriptures of all religions and behold the Glorious Sun of Truth that has arisen once more to deliver man from sin and self.
page 8
In this last triune1 Manifestation is fulfilled every promise of the Infinite to man up to the date of the thousand year millennium, as termed in the Christian Bible.  Beyond that period we know nothing, as far as man's advent on the earth is concerned.  When we shall need further light to carry on the work of God's Kingdom here He will reveal His Spirit through the flesh, as He has continued to do all down the ages.
God is Spirit, an Essence, unknowable, hence the creation of man through whom He may make known the knowledge of His Word.


III:3, 28 April 1912
page 3
'Abdu'l-Bahá's arrival in America1
Wendell Phillips Dodge
'Abdu'l-Bahá, the eminent Persian philosopher and leader of the Bahá'í movement for the unification of religions and the establishment of universal peace, arrived 11 April on the steamship Cedric from Alexandria, Egypt.  It is his first visit to America, and except for a brief visit to Paris and London last summer and fall, it is the first time in forty years that he has gone beyond the fortification of the "prison city" of Acre, Syria, to which place he and his father, Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í movement, were banished by the Turkish government a half century ago.
He comes on a mission of international peace, to attend and address the Peace Conference at Lake Mohonk the latter part of the month, and to address various peace meetings, educational societies, religious organizations, etc.
When the ship news reporters boarded the Cedric down the bay 'Abdu'l-Bahá was found on the upper deck, standing where he could see the pilot, his long, flowing oriental robe flapping in the breeze.  He was clothed in a long, black robe open at the front and disclosing another robe of light tan.  Upon his head was a pure white turban, such as all eastern patriarchs wear.
His face was light itself as he scanned the harbour and greeted the reporters, who had been kept waiting at quarantine for three and a half hours before they could board the ship with the customs officers, owing to a case of smallpox and several cases of typhoid fever in the steerage, which had to be removed to Hoffman Island for isolation, and the ship then fumigated.  He is a man of medium height, though at first sight he seemed to be much taller.  He is strongly and solidly built, and weighs probably one hundred and sixty-five pounds.  As he paced the deck, talking with the reporters, he appeared alert and active in every movement, his head thrown back and splendidly poised upon his broad, square shoulders, most of the time.  A profusion of iron grey hair bursting out at the sides of the turban and hanging long upon the neck; a large, massive head, full-domed and remarkably wide across the forehead and temples, the forehead rising like a great palisade above the eyes, which were very wide apart, their orbits large and deep, looking out from under massive overhanging brows; strong Roman nose, generous ears, decisive yet kindly mouth and chin; a creamy white complexion, beard same colour as his hair, worn full over the face and carefully trimmed at almost full length-this completes an insufficient word picture of this "Wise Man Out of the East".
His first words were about the press, saying:
"The pages of swiftly appearing newspapers are indeed the mirror of the world; they display the doings and actions of the different nations; they both illustrate them and cause them to be heard.  Newspapers are as a mirror which is endowed with hearing, sight and speech; they are a wonderful phenomenon and a great matter.  But it behoveth the editors of the newspaper to be sanctified from the prejudice of egotism and desire, and to be adorned with the ornament of equity and justice.
"There are good and bad newspapers.  Those which strive to speak only that which is truth, which hold the mirror up to truth, are like the sun:  they light the world everywhere with truth and their work is imperishable.  Those who play for their own little selfish ends give no true light to the world and perish of their own futility."
Dr Amín U. Faríd, a young American-
page 4
ized Persian physician and surgeon, who is a nephew of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and who acted as interpreter, then told of how 'Abdu'l-Bahá spent most of his time on the way across standing beside the wireless operator, himself receiving numerous messages through the air from his followers in America.
Talking to the reporters in his stateroom aboard the Cedric, 'Abdu'l-Bahá told of an incident which occurred in the Holy Land last winter, and it shows what a rare sense of humour this great world figure has.  An enquirer, about to set off to Jerusalem, was one day discussing with 'Abdu'l-Bahá the subject of pilgrimage:
"'The proper spirit,' said 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his quaint way to the enquirer, 'in which to visit places hallowed by remembrances of Christ, is one of constant communion with God.  Love for God will be the telegraph wire, one end of which is in the Kingdom of the Spirit and the other in your heart.'
"'I am afraid my telegraph wire is broken,' the enquirer replied.
"'Then you will have to use wireless telegraphy,' I told him," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, laughing heartily.
When the ship was abreast the Statue of Liberty, standing erect and facing it, 'Abdu'l-Bahá held his arms wide apart in salutation, and said:
"There is the new world's symbol of liberty and freedom.  After being forty years a prisoner I can tell you that freedom is not a matter of place.  It is a condition.  Unless one accept dire vicissitudes he will not attain.  When one is released from the prison of self, that is indeed a release."
Then, waving adieu to the Statue of Liberty, he continued:
"In former ages it has been said, 'To love one's native land is faith.'  But the tongue in this days says.  'Glory is not his who loves his native land; but glory is his who loves his kind-humanity.'"
"What is your attitude toward woman suffrage?" asked one of the reporters.
"The modern suffragette is fighting for what must be, and many of these are willing martyrs to imprisonment for their cause.  One might not approve of the ways of some of the more militant suffragettes, but in the end it will adjust itself.  If women were given the same advantages as men, their capacity being the same, the result would be the same.  In fact, women have a superior disposition to men; they are more receptive, more sensitive, and their intuition is more intense.  The only reason of their present backwardness in some directions is because they have not had the same educational advantages as men.
"All children should be educated, but if parents cannot educate both the boys and the girls, then it would be better to educate the girls, for they will be the mothers of the coming generation.  This is a radical idea for the East, where I come from, but it is already taking effect there, for the Bahá'í women of Persia are being educated along with the men.
"We have only to look about us in nature;" 'Abdu'l-Bahá continued, "to see the truth of this.  Is it not a fact that the females of many species of animals are stronger and more powerful than the male?  The chief cause of the mental and physical inequalities of the sexes is due to custom and training, which for ages past have moulded woman into the ideal of the weaker vessel.
"The world in the past has been ruled by force, and man has dominated over woman by reason of his more forceful and aggressive qualities both of body and mind.  But the scales are already shifting-force is losing its weight and mental alertness, intuition, and the spiritual qualities of love and service, in which woman is strong, are gaining ascendancy.  Hence the new age will be an age less masculine, and more permeated with the feminine ideals-or, to speak more exactly, will be an age in which the masculine and feminine elements of civilization will be more properly balanced."
"What is a Bahá'í?" asked one of the reporters.
"To be a Bahá'í simply means to love all the world, to love humanity and try to serve it; to work for Universal Peace, and the Universal Brotherhood," replied 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
The ship now, pointed its nose up the North River, and, gazing in a look of bewildered amazement at the rugged sky line of the lower city formed by the downtown skyscrapers, the "Wise Man out of the East", remarked, pointing at the towering buildings:
"These are the minarets of Western World commerce and industry, and seem to stretch these things heavenward in an endeavour to bring about this Universal Peace for which we are all working, for the good of the nations and mankind in general.
"The bricks make the house, and if the
page 5
bricks are bad the house will not stand, as these do.  It is necessary for individuals to become as good bricks, to eradicate from themselves race and religious hatred, greed and a limited patriotism, so that, whether they find themselves guiding the government or founding a home, the result of their efforts may be peace and prosperity, love and happiness."
The ship now reached its pier, where were anxiously waiting several hundred Bahá'ís, as the followers of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are called, who had been craning their necks down the river for a first sight of him since early morning.  The ship docked shortly after noon, but, fearing that a demonstration in public would not be the best thing for the Cause, and not liking that sort of thing, the venerable Persian Divine did not leave the ship until the pier had been quietly cleared of his followers, who were told to meet him in the afternoon at the home of Mr and Mrs Kinney, where he greeted them a few hours later.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's first public address in America
'Abdu'l-Bahá, the head of the Movement for the Unification of Religions and for the establishment of Universal Peace, made his first public address in America at the Church of the Ascension, Fifth avenue and Tenth street, Sunday morning, 14 April.  The Rev. Dr Percy Stickney Grant, rector of the church, had invited him to deliver the principal sermon of the day, at the 11 o'clock service, Dr Grant conducting the service up to that point.  The church was crowded even to the aisles and throughout the regular Episcopal service preceding the sermon 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his interpreter, Dr Amín Ullah Faríd, sat back of the choir to one side of the altar.  The keynote sounded by the venerable Persian philosopher and religious leader was that humanity, generally speaking, was emerged in a sea of materiality.
In introducing 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the congregation, the Rev. Dr Grant said:
"It is a personal gratification that I have the honour and pleasure to welcome to this place of worship a messenger from the East, freshly bearing a message of the gospel of peace, good will and love to all mankind.  In him we see a master of the things of the spirit.  He comes with a plan of construction and of reconstruction, and has brought to these shores a touchstone of love and of peace.  Modern life to him is only a fabric to be understood and exemplified.  He believes in the fundamental unity of all religions; he believes that the great faiths of the world belong together.  He believes that the spirituality of the Orient should shake hands with the materiality of the Occident.  Let us shake hands together.
"This great representative of the East comes to tell us that knowledge and more knowledge will bring about a realization of peace and unity.  He is a man with a spirit of understanding.  But, some will ask, 'what has he done to prove his sincerity'.  An exile from his native land from the age of nine; a prisoner for forty years, are the badges of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's sincerity.
"We are going to listen in the fashion of the East and listen to a great student."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then came forward, wearing the costume of the East.  On his head was a white turban, such as is worn only by the Patriarchs; and he was robed in the long flowing light tan tunic or cloak worn by Persian divines.  His interpreter, Dr Faríd, wore the conventional frock coat of American dress, but also wore the black Persian fez.  Beginning in a low, though sonorous voice, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
[The Talk that followed can be found in The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 11-13.]


III:3, 28 April 1912
page 6
'Abdu'l-Bahá in Washington, D.C.
Joseph H. Hannen
The hearts of the friends in Washington were gladdened and their souls refreshed by the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from Saturday, 20 April, to Sunday, 28 April, inclusive.  Words are inadequate to describe the joy imparted by this visit, nor can one yet realize all it has meant to us.  Time will tell, as the seed germinates and develops into the plant, reproducing itself in turn until from each tiny life-germ there shall come into existence a rose garden, which touching another, and that in turn still others, shall transform the world into the garden of Paradise!
Days of waiting were rewarded when, at 1:33 a.m. on Saturday, 20 April, 'Abdu'l-Bahá reached Washington on the Pennsylvania Railroad.  In accordance with his expressed desire, there was no notice given of the hour of his arrival, and no delegation to meet him.  The arrival was as simple as the Guest, and yet as memorable to those who were privileged to witness it, as the majestic simplicity of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  The train was just on time.  Among the usual crowd of travellers there was a quaint note lent by the party of Orientals, in the midst of whom, cool, collected and ever the Master of the situation, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was seen.  Quietly he passed through the gates, stopping at the threshold to greet the children of Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán.  The admonition of the guard to "pass along-don't block the passage", disturbed the Servant of God not at all-nor was it repeated, it might be added.  Besides the Charge d'Affaires of Persia, his family and the Secretary of the Legation, there were present the President, the Treasurer and the Secretary of the Persian-American Educational Society, with a few of the friends who happened to be at the station at the time.  After greeting the children most affectionately, 'Abdu'l-Bahá walked with Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán, -the other members of his party following to the automobile section of the Union Station, where the car of Mrs Barney-Hemmick was waiting.  On the way, the first words spoken were to the effect that America is greater than Europe.  Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán, to whom these words were addressed, replied that America was only awaiting his coming.
Accompanied by Dr Faríd, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was driven at once to the home of Mr and Mrs A. J. Parsons, 18th and "R" Streets,
page 7
where he was entertained during his sojourn.  The other members of the party, Siyyid Asadu'lláh, Mírzá Mahmúd and Dr Getsinger, had accommodations near by.
The first public meeting was the third and final session of the Orient-Occident Unity, held in the spacious hall of the Public Library.  This hall, which normally seats about 400, had been taxed to its utmost capacity, fully 600 persons having gained entrance and about 100 more standing in the hall outside.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered the building, crowds lined on either side of the steps stood silently and most respectfully, with heads bared-and this was an unconscious and spontaneous tribute of an American Saturday night crowd!  Upon his entrance into the hall, the audience rose at once and remained standing until he bade them be seated.  His address, delivered at once, was received with close interest, and at its close the Conference was adjourned.  Practically the entire audience remained to shake his hand.
The second public meeting was at Studio Hall, where friends were assembled at the usual hour for Sunday School, 11:15.  The hall was beautifully decorated with plants and cut flowers.  The children were in the front seats and received his special attention.  At the close of this service he passed before each row, shaking the hand of every person present, some 200 or more.  On this occasion he appeared most happy.
The third meeting was a vast gathering at Universalist Church, in pursuance of an appointment made some time previously.  Here more than 1,000 persons were gathered.  More than an hour before the time announced the entire lower floor of the church was filled.  The Pastor of the Church, Rev. John Van Schaick, Jr., clad in the robes of his office, introduced 'Abdu'l-Bahá with a most glowing tribute to his life and teachings.  At the conclusion of a brief address, the formalities contemplated were dispensed with, and nearly everyone remained to meet the distinguished speaker.
Receptions were held at the home of Mrs Parsons every afternoon at about 5:00 o'clock, from Monday to Friday, inclusive.  The large parlour, seating 150, was crowded each afternoon, and the interest grew as the week advanced.  Many persons prominent in social, official and diplomatic circles were present, beside numbers of well-known men and women of literary and scientific attainments.
On Tuesday, 23 April, at noon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the student-body of more than 1,000, the faculty and a large number of distinguished guests, at Howard University.  This was a most notable occasion, and, here, as everywhere when both white and coloured people were present, 'Abdu'l-Bahá seemed happiest.  The address was received with breathless attention by the vast audience, and was followed by a positive ovation and a recall.  That evening the Bethel Literary and Historical Society, the leading coloured organization in Washington, was addressed, and again the audience taxed the capacity of the edifice in which the meeting was held.
On Wednesday afternoon one of the most beautiful functions of the week was successfully planned and carried out.  At the Studio Hall more than 100 children, with as many adults, parents and friends, gathered.  'Abdu'l-Bahá received and embraced each child, seeming most happy in their presence, and then delivered a wonderful address.  'Abdu'l-Bahá presented each child, before he left, with a gift.
On Wednesday evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited Mrs Dyer's home, where the meetings are held regularly on that night.  More than 100 persons were present and were made happy by his address.
Thursday morning a large delegation from the Theosophical Societies of Washington was received, calling to pay their respects officially.
Friday morning the ladies of the Unitarian Church-President Taft's church-were addressed, a large attendance crowding the room in which the talk was given.
Friday evening, the last public meeting was addressed at the Continental Hall of the Daughters of the American Revolution.  This is one of the most spacious halls in Washington, and the very finest location possible.  It had not been contemplated to have such a large meeting that evening, but the interest became so intense that it was deemed necessary.
Saturday evening a reception was given, under the auspices of the Persian-American Educational Society-Orient-Occident Unity-by Mrs Parsons.  This was the culmination of the visit, from the standpoint of meeting the representatives of social and diplomatic life, large numbers of whom had become interested, through Mrs Parsons' afternoon receptions, as well as through an afternoon reception held at the Persian Legation on Tuesday.
page 8
Sunday the gentle guest, who is a Host in himself-the Servant of God, who is Master of the situation at every point-departed for Chicago.  Therefore, with the fragrance of both gatherings dominant, this brief outline of historic events will be closed, while the incidents narrated will live forever!


III:3, 28 April 1912
page 10
Report of meeting at Universalist Church
4 p.m., Sunday, 21 April 1912
Introduction by Dr John van Schaick, Jr.
In behalf of the officers and members of this Church, I have the honour of welcoming you to Washington.  We feel that we are honoured by the presence of one who has so faithfully served God and humanity.  The Faith of this Church is summed up in two great doctrines:  Belief in the Universal Fatherhood of God and in the Universal Brotherhood of Man.  Because we believe that God is our father and that we are all His children, we believe also in the immortality of the soul.  We believe that Revelation is progressive.  We hold with Jesus that when the Spirit of Truth is come He will guide us into all Truth.  We look for more Truth in each age and every country.  What you have done as a great Leader, as a Servant of God, for Universal Peace, Universal Knowledge, Universal Brotherhood, calls forth our deepest gratitude.  After arrangements for this meeting had been made, I received a letter warning me that I should be false to my belief if I held it.  That letter quoted Jesus as saying, "All that ever came before Me are thieves and robbers."  I do not believe that Jesus ever said it.  It is not consistent with what we know of the breadth of His nature.  But some of His followers say that all other Leaders are thieves and robbers.  Against such narrowness this Church has always stood.  We stand today humbly seeking the Spirit of Truth, and we gather here today because we believe that you are one of those who do not count their lives dear unto themselves, but seek only to serve God.1


III:3, 28 April 1912
page 12
Dr Van Schaick:  "Tell 'Abdu'l-Bahá that we are all stronger and better and richer for his words of wisdom and for his spirit of love."
'Abdu'l-Bahá replies that he is greatly pleased with the occasion, with this audience, and especially with the Minister.  For he sees evidently that your intentions are good and that your aim is the good pleasure of the Lord.  You have all gathered together to pray to the one God, that you may turn to Him in order that you may obtain His favour.  Such an audience as this is a source of great happiness to him.  Therefore he shall pray for you, heart and soul, asking blessings in your behalf.


III:4, 17 May 1912
page 27
A stroll with 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Culminating in a typical Bahá'í meeting under the trees of Lincoln Park, Chicago.
Honore J. Jaxon
During 'Abdu'l-Bahá's stay in Chicago at the Plaza Hotel, it became a matter of frequent occurrence for him to take a morning or evening stroll in Lincoln Park-that magnificent pleasance where lawns and woods extend northward from the hotel for several miles along the shore of Lake Michigan.
On these occasions it was usual for him to accept the escort of any of the friends who might have the good fortune to be on hand and at leisure at the time of starting; and one of the most interesting of these episodes was the one of which there is presented herewith an outline as illustrated by the camera of a friend who although belated at the start, had been guided through the mazes of the park to the place where the little party was pursuing its way among the trees.
Near the lakeward side of the middle por-
page 28
tion of the park is an unusually well stocked zoological department.  The many strange and beautiful forms of bird and animal life herein presented proved very interesting to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, as he walked among them with a manner which somehow reminds one of the legends of St Francis of Assisi, and the all-consciousness said to have been displayed by that loveable saint in his communings with the birds and animals of his day; and it was here that 'Abdu'l-Bahá was moved to grant permission for the first of the pictures taken during this stroll-the occasion chosen being at a time when the cortege found itself grouped very conveniently for camera purposes between two lines of iron palisade.
Photographic operations being thus pleasantly initiated, 'Abdu'l-Bahá next consented to a group picture which was suggested to the minds of some of the ladies while the party was descending a broad and noble flight of masonry stairs that had been built to accommodate a steep inflection of the footway as it passed through a wooded dell.
From this point, 'Abdu'l-Bahá directed his course to a place where-springing from the midst of heavy bushes on either shore-a single arched foot-bridge rises high above a wide lagoon, whose dark waters are said to have closed over many a discouraged soul that had chosen the crown of the bridge as the place from which to cast a final "longing, lingering look" at earth and sky.  The landscape disclosed from this viewpoint is indeed one of the fairest in Chicago; and it is worthy of remark, that it includes in its northernmost reaches the spot where on the distant horizon the grounds of the coming Chicago Mashriqu'l-Adhkár slope down to meet the waters of the lake.  "Beautiful," was the comment made by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in English, and with quiet but loving emphasis, as he gazed northward from the parapet of the bridge.  His glance comprehended both the wide-spread panorama and the placid waters beneath, and there sprang into being among the friends present a strongly marked impression, that he was moved to special prayer by becoming innately aware of the thrilling human experiences connected with the scene.
Before leaving the bridge 'Abdu'l-Bahá acceded to another group picture while the friends were seated at the summit, and also to a remarkable full-length picture of himself alone, which has been reproduced as the frontispiece of this issue.  The course of the morning's walk then turned back toward the animals' quarters; and here, while apparently engrossed in contemplating the movements of a majestic polar bear, 'Abdu'l-Bahá delighted the friends by exhibiting coincidentally the charming sense of humour and the all-consciousness which are alike so strongly marked in him.  No sooner had the picture been taken of 'Abdu'l-Bahá standing alone on the bridge, then the friends commenced to express to each other their desire to secure a similar picture that would show the beautiful silver locks that flow down from under his turban and ripple across the collar of his robe at the back.  His seeming absorption in study of the great bear suggested to all, simultaneously, that this was the opportune moment; and a joyful conspiracy was at once entered into-everyone quietly tip-toeing out of range, while the active agent of the proposed photographic larceny set up his tripod and prepared for a time exposure that would insure a satisfactory clearness of detail in the desired picture.  Soon a perfect focus was obtained and apparently everything was ready, but just as the members of the little group were holding their breaths in thrilled anticipation of success-at the very moment, indeed, when the operator had seized the bulb, the pressing of which would open the shutter and start the exposure of the film-'Abdu'l-Bahá turned suddenly around with a delighted little chuckle, and playfully smote the would-be thief across the back of his neck with a light touch of his walking cane, thereby conferring one unique distinction which the recipient of this "love-tap" is probably cherishing as a happy memory!
And now came the most striking feature of the morning's experience and the subject of the closing photographic illustration.  From the episode of the bears' den, 'Abdu'l-Bahá led the friends toward the lake, and taking one of a number of seats conveniently disposed under a group of trees, invited the friends to likewise be seated.  They found themselves arranged in a circle, and, after dictating an answer to a letter which had been read to him that morning as he had walked along, 'Abdu'l-Bahá suddenly commenced talking to them in a strain of intimate and friendly counsel which exalted the hearts of all present, and warmed the determination of each one to be doubly on guard against any future possibility of becoming a cause of disunion or discord.  Two striking gems we herewith
page 29
reproduce:  "Some of you may have observed that I have not called attention to any of your individual shortcomings.  I would suggest to you, that if you shall be similarly considerate in your treatment of each other, it will be greatly conducive to the harmony of your association with each other."  And then, as a concluding delight of the morning's spiritual feast, this charming illustration of the subject of organization:  "I want you to be organized like a flock of the doves of Heaven, whose attitude and conduct toward each other is a symbol of that which will take place among human beings when human beings shall become willing to accept the guidance of the Holy Spirit."  With these words, the homeward course was taken, and so concluded a typical and memorable Bahá'í meeting in a park, which will ever hereafter be associated in memory with the blessed influence of the "Servant of Bahá".


III:6, 24 June 1912
page 6
Interview between a prominent Rabbi and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Entering the room the Rabbi saluted, which was answered by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in like manner.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "You are most welcome Rabbi."
Rabbi:  "I have long desired to meet you."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Very good; very good."
Rabbi:  "Your address yesterday was excellent.  I have had the pleasure of hearing you upon two other occasions, but your address of yesterday had an extraordinary universality.  You have very clearly established the teachings of brotherhood but I am afraid that although your principles are very lofty they will not be accepted by all the religionists and the workers for peace."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Reality will always be victorious.  No one can stand before the onward march of reality.  The phenomenal is always conquered by the eternal.  All the contingent beings are defeated by the will of heaven.  One small Arabian boy can lead two thousand camels in the Sahara.  One intelligent Hindu boy can conquer an elephant."
Rabbi:  "It is true.  In the Bible we have the statement that 'A little child shall lead them'"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Truth will always be victorious; therefore it does not know defeat but the people of reality must exert great effort, and if the people of reality neglect to display this effort that is another matter.  The people of reality must demonstrate their willingness in this direction.  They must realize that the greatest reality of this age is the oneness of the human world.  They must forget traditions and imitations of the past.  For instance, if we look upon the Catholic religion we see that they believe that an important part is the transubstantiation; that is, the change of the bread and wine into the body of Christ.  If we ponder a little we realize that this is a non-essential.  It is imitation and the reverse of reality.
"Again, if we look at the Hindus we see that they have made images and worship them as deities, and they have eight million such deities in, their temples.  It is evident that these are superstitions and imaginations.  They worship the cow, the stone, the water and the forces of nature-all these are imitations of the past and they have no foundation whatever."
Rabbi:  "Do you then regard the transubstantiation as being on the same ground as the worshipping of idols?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "All these are imitations.  They have no reality.  As these are the opposite of realities, therefore they have no foundation.  Everything that keeps man away from God, is an idol.  Everything which detracts man's attention from God is an idol, no matter what it is."
Rabbi:  "Then every channel between God and His creature is an idol?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Consider, let us not bind ourselves with imitations.  Let us study the condition of the Jews for a moment.  When they were in Egypt they were captives; they were poor; they were prisoners in the hand of Pharaoh; they were ignored; they were a dependent people, they were surrounded by all kinds of troubles and vicissitudes; the people looked down upon them; they were considered as outcasts.  Then Moses came.  He gathered them together; inspired them with the power of unity; imparted to them new life; taught them the laws of God encouraging them in the morals and virtues of humanity; delivered them from the hand of Pharaoh; freed them from the bondage of captivity; educated them, trained them and carried them away from the land of darkness into the holy of holies of light.  Their power was increased; their majesty became refulgent; their fame was spread throughout the world, until they were enabled to found the Solomonic sovereignty.  In philosophy and art they attained such heights that the philosophers of Greece and Rome travelled long distances to learn from them.  Now is it possible to say that to revere and respect these souls is equivalent to the worshipping of idols?  We must respect Moses because he achieved a work which no one else could do.  It is an evident fact that His Holiness Moses was a
page 7
channel between God and man.  No further proof is required for this.  I do not attempt to prove the validity of Moses by pointing to his turning the rod into a serpent; instead I give evident proofs.
"Again you will note that His Highness Christ was a Jew.  Ponder well over this matter:  The Jews were captives in the hand of the Romans; they were their slaves.  From every standpoint they were scattered and impoverished.  Nebuchadnezzar carried seventy thousand of them into captivity at Babylon.  Even today the tombs of Esther and Daniel are there.  And afterwards what did Titus, the Roman Emperor, not do!  He entirely destroyed the foundation of the Jewish temple.  The effect of the destruction of Titus is manifest up to this time for we see them scattered all over the world.  His Holiness Christ appeared and established unity among the Romans, the Greeks, the Chaldeans, the Assyrians, the Europeans and the Americans.  He established a bond of unity between all the nations.  All the great prophets, the kings and the worthies of the Jewish nation could not make the Persians believe in Moses.  All the prophets such as Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Nehemiah, et al., could not make one Zoroastrian believe in Moses.  But one Jew came and many millions believe in Him.  He spread His name in the East and in the West.  He caused the Bible to be translated in all the languages of the world, and today nearly every home contains a Bible.  He demonstrated throughout the world to all the nations of the world that the Jewish people were the chosen people, that the Jewish prophets were the prophets of God, that their books were the books of God, that their words were the words of God.  This is evident.  These are not intellectual or traditional evidences but they are such evidences as permit of no discussion.  Look at America.  You see a Bible in almost every house that you enter.  See what Christ has accomplished.  Witness what one soul who was crucified has accomplished.
"When He was living upon the earth He was alone, ridiculed and rejected by His own people.  Almost everybody cursed and ridiculed Him.  His own relatives left Him; even His disciples almost abandoned Him; they placed upon His head a crown of thorns and paraded Him over the streets, and finally they crucified Him.  He was alone! alone! but the traces of His work and the signs of His message have filled the world.  Man must be just.  After these statements no one can deny the greatness of Christ.  Now is it evident to you that all these conditions among the nations are on account of injustice?  If they had all been just they would have been united on this principle:  that these prophets were channels for the bounty of God, for they were the first teachers of mankind.
"The philosophers are also teachers but all they could do was to teach themselves and a few other souls.  But the prophets of God taught the whole world.  They trained all the children of men in morals and ethics.  Who can say that they failed to accomplish their work, and who would give the names of the philosophers the first place?"
Rabbi:  "Indeed, indeed you are one of the greatest logicians of the world.  Up to this time I have been talking to you as a man; now I will address you as a Rabbi.  Your premises and syllogisms do not agree.  It is not correct to say that Christ has accomplished all these things, for but few of his teachings were accepted until about three hundred and fifty years after his crucifixion-"
'Abdu'l-Bahá here exclaimed:  "I understand, I understand," and then continued:  "His Highness Moses laid the foundation but the result of His teachings became apparent during the time of Solomon.  If there had been no Moses there would have been no Solomon.  The sovereignty of Solomon was the outcome of the principles of Moses.  If there had been no Moses the children of Israel would have been entirely lost, and up to this time they would have been slaves in the land of Pharaoh.  Their very name would have disappeared from the page of history.  Moses laid down a few principles, but the results of those principles became apparent five hundred years afterward.  If an inquirer is just he will realize that Moses laid with His own hand Solomonic universality.  Likewise if His Highness Christ had not laid the foundations of Christianity, the evident signs which we see today would not have been realized.
"I scatter the seeds today, six months hence they may become apparent.  In the meantime, can anyone deny the germination of these seeds, and when they are grown, repudiate the fact that these plants owe their origin to the seed?"
Rabbi:  "Suppose that Christ was the Promised One of the Jews; how did the doctrine of divinity creep in among the Christians?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Do not look upon the Christians of today.  The Christians are today sub-
page 8
merged in the sea of imitation.  It is evident that man is the highest of God's creatures on the face of the earth.  For example, there are certain attributes which are apparent in the mineral kingdom.  The vegetable kingdom has the attributes existing in the mineral kingdom with another attribute, which is the power of growth.  The animal has the attributes of the mineral and the vegetable kingdoms but with another attribute, which is the power of instinct.  Therefore the animal is a composite of the mineral and vegetable kingdoms, but man has the virtues of the mineral kingdom, the virtues of the vegetable kingdom, the virtues of the animal kingdom and another distinct virtue, which is that of intellect, consequently man is the highest creation of God.  He is the peerless creature and in him are contained all the virtues of the human world.
"Christ was the mirror; God was the Sun.  The Sun appeared with all its effulgence and splendour in the mirror; that is, the virtues, the perfections and the characteristics of God appeared in Christ, This is what is meant where it is written in the Bible that 'We have created man in our own image.'  The perfect man is the visage and image of God, just as the mirror reflects the sun.  We can not say that the sun has come down from heaven and has taken a place in the mirror.  The sun is eternal, living in its own station.  It had no ascent or descent, entrance or exit; but the rays and the heat of the sun have become fully reflected in the clear mirror.  That is why Christ said the future is in the sun and the sun is in the future.  The Sun of Truth reflected itself in the mirrors of Moses and Christ."
Rabbi:  "Most wonderful!  We must name this divine philosophy the philosophy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  I am extraordinarily delighted to have had this privilege to talk with you."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I am very happy indeed to meet you."
Rabbi:  "I hope I will have the pleasure of meeting you again."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "God willing.  May you be under His protection."


III:7, 13 July 1912
page 4
Interviews with 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Interview of W. H. Short, Sec. N.Y. Peace Society and Hudson Maxim with 'Abdu'l-Bahá at Hotel Ansonia, New York City, 15 April 1912.
Notes by Howard MacNutt.
Interview with Mr W. H. Short
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "You are very welcome; I am most happy to greet you.  I have looked forward with much pleasure to this meeting.  Welcome!  Welcome!"
Mr Short:  "It gives me great happiness indeed to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  I too have looked forward to this meeting.  The New York Peace Society extends him greetings and welcome to our city and our country."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "You are indeed a servant to humanity.  A servant to humanity is a servant to God.  Your mission is a high, holy and sanctified one; there could be no greater, no holier mission than that of bringing peace to this warring world.  Therefore I have waited for you with the greatest longing.
"In this day the majority of mankind are endeavouring to destroy the foundations of the happiness of the world.  How many are engaged in the invention of means for the destruction of human kind; how many are employed in the science and practice of war; how many are occupied in various kinds of strife and antagonism; how many stand ready to shed the blood of innocent men, their brothers!  So it is that history is blackened with this record of human intention and accomplishment.  Every hour war is threatened upon some new pretext; today patriotism is its basis, tomorrow religious prejudice, racial egotism, territorial greed, commercial selfishness-it matters little what the excuse may be-blood is shed and human beings torn to pieces upon battlefields.  Political interests clash; a great war follows; sadness, gloom and cruelty envelop the world.
"But you are endeavouring to uplift the standard of peace in the world.  You must continue to work until the world is released from these prejudices which are bringing about such inhuman conditions.  For the clouds of war will surely vanish from the horizons.  There is no doubt that your work is the greatest work and its outcome certain."
Mr Short:  "All the members of the New York Peace Society feel the truth and inspiration of what you have said."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "You must rest assured and let there be no traces of doubt in your souls that God is your Assister and Helper.  The Heavenly confirmations will descend upon you more and more.  God will protect you and give you new strength continually.  Your world-motives will conquer the world of men; all obstacles will disappear before your advance; no earthly power can resist the onrushing power of Peace.  For this power is assisted by the Power of God and that which is divinely assisted must prevail.  Consider how the Cause of Christ was confirmed.  How many resisted it!  What mountains of obstacles were raised against it!  What hostile forces sought to destroy its foundations!  Yet the kings and emperors of the world could not resist its spread and establishment.  No power of earth can withstand the onflow of the Spirit of Truth.  If earthly kings and kingdoms come in its way, it will conquer and they will be overthrown, always.  For your cause is Truth itself and Truth is Omnipotent.  If all nations arise to prevent, they will be vanquished and you will be victorious. [Visitor much impressed.]  You are a servant of God, not a servant of this world.  A servant of God is he who gives some benefit to the world of man."
Mr Short:  "We belong to a race [Anglo Saxon] which has wielded the power of oppression.  We have been the oppressor, not the oppressed.  The whole matter of World Peace presents a different aspect to the western mind.
"Justice, human rights and religion are controlling motives of the men of the New York Peace Society.  We must confess that hitherto Americans have not felt the welfare of Eastern countries to be as important as the develop-
page 5
ment of our own interests.  We have not known enough of the ideals of other countries.  As a rule we meet only immigrants and discontented wanderers from foreign lands.  But recently this has been changed and the aspect is wider.  Our press is not the reflector of foreign news.  Our people travel in distant countries; but few important and influential foreigners come to visit us.  Our purpose in the Peace Society is not only to establish the doctrines of peace but to defend the principles of human brotherhood; to acquaint the people of this country with foreign matters and provide opportunity that they may meet and know foreign men.  Therefore we take advantage of every opportunity to introduce such men to our people.  We will be very glad and greatly honoured to arrange a reception under the auspices of the New York Peace Society at which 'Abdu'l-Bahá can address a large assemblage, meet our friends and exchange mutual sentiments.  I have just come from the home of Mr Carnegie.  He is not able to go out owing to a throat affection, but will be glad to receive 'Abdu'l-Bahá at his home.  Mr and Mrs Carnegie will attend the Peace Conference at Lake Mohonk in June.  As I understand 'Abdu'l-Bahá will be there also, the meeting with Mr Carnegie might be mutually arranged then.  Acquaintances and friendships begun at Lake Mohonk will be most pleasant at a reception thereafter."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I go to Washington next week.  Is there time enough before my departure to arrange the plans suggested?"
Mr Short:  "It would be better if we had more time.  Something could be arranged, but it is doubtful."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "How many days in advance would be necessary?"
Mr S.:  "There should be at least two weeks.  Almost any date would be suitable except Friday, 10 May."
13 May finally decided upon.
Interview with Mr Hudson Maxim
Mr Short remaining.
Mr Hudson Maxim, scientist, inventor and expert upon explosives, was then announced.  He entered.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Welcome!  Welcome!  Very welcome!"
Hudson Maxim:  "I am glad to hear you speak English."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "My life has been spent in the Orient where foreign languages are seldom used.  Otherwise I would have acquired English.  Language is the great barrier between nations.  When thoughts are interchanged destinies become one.  All languages are difficult of acquirement for the real language is deeper than the outer words."
Hudson Maxim:  "Are you speaking in Turkish?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "In Persian.  I also speak Turkish and Arabic; Turkish is very difficult.  In the East it is thought that acquiring Turkish is equivalent to the study of three other tongues."
Hudson Maxim:  "I understand you are a messenger of peace to this country.  What is your opinion about modern war?  Shall the great nations maintain armament and defences as a guarantee or warrant against war? [presenting papers].  Here is an article I have written upon this subject.  Shall the nations have an international police navy which protects and insures peace in the world, or shall they disarm and have no navies?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Everything that prevents war is good."
Hudson Maxim:  "Christ said He came to make war.  Caesar was great in history because he was great in battle and military skill."
'Abdu'l-Bahá  "We have the history of the world for nearly six thousand years.  Before that there is no record.  During these six thousand years there has been constant war, strife, bloodshed.  We can see at a glance the results, achievements and outcomes of war.  The history of warfare and strife is known, the effect apparent.  Have we not a sufficient standard of experience in this direction?  Let us now try peace for awhile.  If good results follow, let us adhere to it.  If not let us throw it away and fight again.  Nothing will be lost by the experiment,"
Hudson Maxim:  "Evolution has now reached a period in the life of nations where commerce takes the place of warfare.  Business is war, cruel, merciless."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "True!  War is not limited to one cause.  There are many kinds of war and conflict going on, political war, commercial war, patriotic and racial war; this is the very civilization of war."
Hudson Maxim:  "Do you consider the next great national war necessary?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I hope your efforts may be able to prevent it.  Why not try peace for awhile?  If we find war is better, it will not be difficult to fight again; but if we find that peace is the
page 10
glorification of humanity, the impulse of true civilization, the stimulus to inventive genius and the means of attainment to the good-pleasure of God, we must agree to adhere to it and establish it permanently."
Hudson Maxim:  "There is much newspaper talk about the United States fighting Japan.  There is no prospect of it whatever.  We don't want to kill good customers.  Commercial energy is more profitable to us.  Competition of commerce is as severe, trying and as cruel as wars of olden time.  Science has made war expensive; so expensive it don't pay to fight.  We make more money by being peaceful, so long as the other fellow keeps quiet and sticks to business.  If an English navy came over here and bombarded New York a week they would injure themselves more than us.  The expense of ammunition and equipment would cost a great deal more than the damage inflicted by their guns and shells.  You are right in advocating peace.  I am an advocate of peace from another standpoint.  I would make war so expensive that the nations could not afford to fight and therefore would agree to maintain peace."
'Abdu'l-Bahá  "The product of human invention, genius and the outcome of human disposition to kill and fight have well-nigh reached their limit.  It seems as if the art of war could not be carried further.  In ancient times when nation fought against nation, probably one thousand would be killed in battle, the expense would not be great, the outcome of victory decisive and final; but in modern times the science of war has reached such a stage of perfection that in twenty-four hours one-hundred-thousand could be sacrificed, great navies sent to the bottom of the sea, great cities destroyed in a few hours.  The possibilities are incalculable, inconceivable, the after effects even more dreadful than the initial shock.  In Egypt, the fellaheen who till the Nile banks, gather four or five harvests from the soil.  Suppose they are called away from their peaceful pursuits, take up arms, expend their possessions for powder and go to war.  The first consequences are grievous enough, but the after-results are even more deplorable.  The country suffers beyond all power of estimation; agriculture is crippled, abandoned, sustenance fails, poverty and suffering continue long afterward.  Furthermore, how many wars there have been in the Orient during past centuries; war and peace in constant succession; but your country America remained unaffected by them or their consequences.  The news of war might reach Europe and America long after it had happened.  But all this is changed in the present century.  As soon as war is declared in any part of the world, all human attention is directed toward it; commerce and the machinery of nations are paralyzed; the whole world thrown into a condition of grave uncertainty.  Therefore it is evident that the time has come to end war and establish peace.  This is an exigency and requirement of the present century."
Hudson Maxim:  "Fewer are killed in modern engagements than in the battles of ancient times; the range is longer and the action less deadly."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "How about the war between Japan and Russia?"
Hudson Maxim:  "Less men are killed in war in a year now than are killed by our industries through preventable accidents."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "War is the most preventable accident."
Hudson Maxim:  "The short sword was more deadly in battle than the quick-firing gun, for the reason that massed men come together in hand-to-hand conflict and the slaughter was fearful.  At Mukden two-hundred and fifty-thousand soldiers retreated without loss.  In ancient times many thousands would have been overtaken and killed.  War is no more dangerous now than automobiling."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "History shows that in war between
page 11
the Roman and Persian Empires extending over a period of twenty years, in which one-hundred thousand men were engaged upon each side, only five or six thousand were killed.  In modern warfare there are bombs which kill men like stripping leaves from a tree.  An Egyptian general who had served in war against England was accused of cowardice at a meeting in Syria.  He asked those present, 'Have you ever seen an English shell?  When you see one explode among troops you will be excused for defeat and cowardice.'"
Hudson Maxim:  [Making diagram]  "The effect of a bomb is not so great as expected.  Most of its force is expended upward into the air.  It is impossible to mass men close enough to it for a full utilization of its energy.  If its explosive energy could be expended in the right direction, it would do plenty of killing."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The greatest intelligence of man is being expended in the direction of killing his fellow-man.  The discovery of high explosives, perfecting of death-dealing weapons of war, the science of military attack, all this is a wonderful manifestation of human intelligence; but it is in the wrong direction.  You are a celebrated inventor and scientific expert whose energies and faculties are employed in the production of means for human destruction.  Your name has become famous in the science of war.  Now you have the opportunity of becoming doubly famous.  You must practice the science of peace.  You must expend your energies and intelligence in a contrary direction.  You must discover the means of peace; invent guns of love which shall shake the foundations of humanity.
"The guns you are now building cause the death of man; you must build guns which will be the cause of life to humanity.  Henceforth your life and energy should be given to this blessed purpose.  You must work and experiment along this line.  This work and accomplishment will be more wonderful than all you have done heretofore.  Then it will be said by the people of the world, this is Mr Maxim, inventor of the guns of war, discoverer of high explosives, military scientist, who has also discovered and invented means for increasing the life and love of man; who has put an end to the strife of nations and uprooted the tree of war.  This will be the most wonderful accomplishment of any human being.  Your name will glow with mention throughout the history of ages and ages.  Then will your life become pregnant and productive with really great results.  Consider this:  the inventor of high explosives has discovered the means of universal peace; an active worker in the science of war has become a factor in the assembly of love!
Then will your name be recorded in the pages of history with a pen of gold.  No man in history will equal you in fame and greatness.  You will be doubly renowned.  God will be pleased with you and from every standpoint of estimation you will be a perfect man."


III:7, 13 July 1912
page 6
'Abdu'l-Bahá with the children of the friends in Chicago
From notes taken by Ella Goodall Cooper and Ella M. Bailey.
'Abdu'l-Bahá meeting with the children of the friends in Chicago on Sunday morning, 5 May, was an event that shall ever be remembered by all who were present.
Although many lived considerable distance and found it necessary to arise as early as five o'clock, yet promptly at the appointed hour of eight, about thirty-five children were on hand to greet him and receive the spiritual baptism in store for them.
They were gathered in a circle in the middle of the beautiful parlour of The Plaza, the parents and friends making another circle behind them.  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered all arose.  While he took the seat prepared for him, the children sang without accompaniment, "Softly His Voice is Calling Now".
Then followed the scene that is indelibly stamped upon the minds and hearts.  He called each child to him in turn, took them in his lap, petting and stroking the hair and hugging and kissing the little ones, pressing the hands and embracing the older ones, all with such infinite love and tenderness shining in his eyes and thrilling in the tones of his voice, that when he whispered in English in their ears to tell him their names, they answered as joyfully and freely as they would a beloved father.  To each child he gave a little different touch, patting some on the breast, some on the back and some on the head.  He blessed them all.  There was no suggestion of haste and a hush fell upon the group-a quiet, vibrant, eloquent silence-making many to feel that it was just such a picture Jesus must have made and which has touched the hearts of all child-lovers for these two-thousand years.
The children's joy and his own happiness seemed to culminate when one dear little tot ran to him and fairly threw herself into his arms.  When he let her go she stood for a second and then suddenly laughed aloud with perfect joy, which found its instant echo in a ripple around the whole circle.
'Abdu'l-Bahá then stood and spoke as follows:  "You are the children of whom His Holiness Christ has said, you are the denizens of the Kingdom; and according to the words of Bahá'u'lláh you are the very lamps or candles of the world of humanity, for your hearts are exceedingly pure and your spirits are most delicate.  You are near the source; you have not yet become contaminated.  You are like lambs, or like a very polished mirror.  My hope for you is that your parents may educate you, spiritually, giving you the utmost ethical training.  May your education be most perfect so that each one of you may be imbued with all the virtues of the human world.  May you advance in all the degrees, be they material degrees or spiritual degrees.  May you all become learned, acquire sciences and arts, acquire the arts and crafts; may you be useful members of human society, may you be conducive to the progress of human civilization; may you be a cause of the manifestation of the divine bestowals, may each one of you be a shining star, radiating the light of the oneness of humanity towards the East and West; may you be conducive to the unity of mankind; may you be conducive to the love of the whole.  May the reality deposited in the human entity become apparent through your efforts.  I pray for all of you, asking God's aid and confirmation in your behalf.
"You are all my children, you are my spiritual children.  The spiritual children are very dear, they are dearer than physical children, because it is possible for physical children to prove unspiritual, but you are all spiritual children, therefore you are very dear; you are most beloved.  I wish for you progress along all degrees.  May God aid you.  May you be surrounded by His gaze of kindness, and may you be nurtured and attain maturity under His protection.  You are all blessed."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then divided a bouquet of flowers which was upon the centre table, and also gave to each child an envelope full of rose petals.  He then walked slowly around the circle, laying his hand in blessing upon each little head, his face beaming with divine
page 7
love as he murmured a tender word to each one.
The children thought they were dismissed, but he made them still more happy by taking them all into Lincoln park to be photographed with him.
'Abdu'l-Bahá then expressed a desire to walk alone and strode majestically away, with his hands clasped behind him.  All eyes followed him.  He walked over to the noble Lincoln statue nearby and for a few moments stood gazing up at it, making a remarkably impressive and significant picture-the lonely figure of our immortal Lincoln gazing down upon him who is today giving to the world spiritual emancipation.
Many of the children lingered under the trees or played upon the grass in the glorious spring sunshine, seemingly reluctant to leave the place where 'Abdu'l-Bahá had so abundantly blessed them, or, perhaps, with the hope that some further expression of his love for them might be forthcoming ere they returned to their homes; nor were some of them disappointed, for, as he came toward a group of little ones under the trees, he gathered them in his arms and submitted to another photograph.
This glimpse of 'Abdu'l-Bahá with the children of the friends in Chicago, would not be complete without reference to the beautiful photograph of him and little Musette Jones, reproduced on page 2 of this issue.  It was taken in his suite of rooms at The Plaza.  A copy of it was later presented to him and over her heart he wrote the word "Rúhíyyih", meaning Spiritual.


III:7, 13 July 1912
page 7
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the friends in Chicago
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 May 1912, New York City.
O ye beloved friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Two days ago, through the protection and providence of the Blessed Perfection, I reached New York.  Since my arrival I have met the friends of God and associated with them.
The minister of the Unity Church in Montclair, New Jersey, repeatedly invited me to address his congregation.  Therefore, yesterday I went to Montclair and spoke before an audience composed of many hundreds of people.  Truly, I say, the minister, the dea-
page 8
cons of the church and the officers exercised the greatest love and consideration.  In introducing the Cause of God and 'Abdu'l-Bahá the minister gave an address in the utmost eloquence and fluency of tongue and instead of reading from the Old and New Testaments, he said:  "I will read from the new Scriptures."  He then read extracts from the Words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  (Extracts from the address of the minister, Rev. Edgar Wiers, will be sent to you by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.)  [See page 12.]
I addressed them on the subject of Divine Unity, the oneness which exists among the Manifestations of God, such as His Highness Moses, His Highness Abraham, His Holiness Jesus Christ, His Holiness Muhammad, His Highness the Báb, and the Universal Manifestation, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  The audience listened with utmost attention and joy.
Last night by the invitation of the International Peace Forum, I appeared in the Grace Methodist Church, New York City, and delivered a detailed address before an audience composed of nearly two thousand people.  Irrefutable proofs and incontravertible evidences were expounded, demonstrating the absolute necessity of establishing the Most Great Peace and International Arbitration.  I proclaimed that His Highness Bahá'u'lláh had upraised this ensign fifty years ago in the Most Great Prison in 'Akká.
With utmost longing 'Abdu'l-Bahá travelled to Chicago to meet the Friends of God.  Praise be to God! he found the beloved rejoiced by the glad-tidings of God and attracted to the Kingdom of God.  In churches and gatherings, while in Chicago, he spoke and scattered the seeds and raised the most glorious mention of the Kingdom of Abhá.  You have seen with your own eyes that not one soul met him with opposition.  Every soul who appeared in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá returned happy, rejoiced and assured.  This became possible by the inexhaustible Bounties of the Beauty of Abhá and the victory and confirmation of His Highness the Almighty.
Having returned to Washington, we met very important personages, and all that was expressed was listened to with profound attention; no soul hesitated in belief; we spoke with everyone according to his merit and capacity.  Many questions were asked by different important seekers on religious, political, socialistic, civic rights, scientific problems and deep spiritual subjects.  Answers to every one of these questions satisfied the interrogator.  No soul hesitated in the acceptance of truth.
In Chicago you had a like experience when all questioners were equally satisfied.  Now 'Abdu'l-Bahá scattered the seeds of Truth in Chicago and the "Breeze of God" was wafted over that city.  The friends of God must water those seeds and through the power and confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá must labour so that those seeds may grow and develop in that field, become verdant and green so that many harvests may be gathered.  This result will be attained through unity and harmony and the love and communion of the hearts.  Therefore, the friends of God must first ignite this lamp of unity in their own gathering and afterwards hoist the tent of the oneness of the world of humanity.
His Highness Bahá'u'lláh addressing the children of men, said:  "Ye are all the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch."  The only difference lies herein:  Some are ignorant-you must bestow upon them knowledge; some are heedless-you must make them mindful; some are asleep-you must awaken them; some are sick-you must heal them; some are children-you must educate them; so that the world of humanity, through the power of God, may attain to maturity.  Man must exercise kindness toward those who are sick and immature and not be impatient or displeased.  The shepherd must gather together the scattered flock and not disperse them.  These are the principles of the people of Bahá.  You must live and act in accord with these teachings.
'Abdu'l-Bahá is always expecting to hear wonderful news from you.  He is ever anticipating that, through the power of confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá the world of human thought may be stirred with tremendous exhilaration in Chicago.  This will be attained through the excellent conduct, the unity, the magnanimity and the spiritual utterances of the friends of God.  In that time the radiant faces of the beloved ones will become illumined in the Kingdom of Abhá the fame of their union and concord will be spread throughout the east and the west and their spiritual victories will embrace the north and the south.
If, at any time, an unimportant and ignorant soul arises in opposition, do not heed him nor consider his objection of any importance.  We have had in the past opposers who have been among the world's celebrities; we have
page 9
had enemies like Násiri'd-Dín and 'Abdu'l-Hamíd, two powerful kings; but all of these people, through the power of the Kingdom of Abhá have vanished and disappeared from the face of the earth and today the Banner of the Covenant is unfurled and waving over all the races.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


III:7, 13 July 1912
page 9
'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant
Charles Mason Remey
'Abdu'l-Bahá, the exponent and leader of the Bahá'í Faith, who is now in America, arrived in New York on the eleventh of April of this year.
Never before has any Eastern teacher received such a warm welcome in America as has been accorded to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Not only have the hearts of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's followers and friends in this country gone out toward him in the greatest of love, but a multitude of people have arisen and have warmly and heartily espoused the principles of international, interracial and inter-religious brotherhood which 'Abdu'l-Bahá is teaching and demonstrating to the world.
During 'Abdu'l-Bahá's recent visits to New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Chicago, Washington and other cities, thousands have crowded to see and to hear him, and these people have been gladdened by the joy of the Lord which 'Abdu'l-Bahá radiates so bounteously to all who allow themselves to come within the magnetic field of his great love for all humanity.
In these days of the foundation of the reign of Peace upon earth, the hearts of the people in general are being subconsciously awakened and spiritually drawn to seek the spirit of unity and harmony.  Therefore when the Lord's Messenger comes with the glad tidings of Peace it is to be expected that the souls of the many who are seeking that Peace should be attracted by his spirit, joyfully receive his teachings and follow in his path.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has received no greater hospitality than that accorded him by the clergy in America.  Pulpits in so many churches have been opened to him that on account of the time it has been possible for him to accept comparatively few of these invitations to address religious congregations.  The doors of various secular societies and associations have also been opened to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and in many conferences he has voiced the message of the Peace of the Covenant of which his life of service is the Centre.
Only four years ago 'Abdu'l-Bahá was completing his fortieth year in the prison of 'Akká in the Holy Land, where he had been incarcerated by the former despotic Turkish government because of this progressive Bahá'í Message of Peace and Brotherhood.  Now all this is changed.  In Turkey Constitutionalism has taken the place of despotism, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá has come out from his prison to the West to establish the Unity of the Covenant of God.
Many people have been drawn to 'Abdu'l-Bahá by a spiritual force which they could not explain; a force which affected them so deeply as to make them observe that a change had been produced in their very souls.  These people are now realizing the reason why 'Abdu'l-Bahá's presence and words have a spiritual effect that no other man's presence nor words have.  This is because he stands in his mission, quite distinct from other men.  In his life of service to mankind is centred the great power of the Divine Covenant.
The Covenant of God has ever been the source of man's spiritual enlightenment in past ages; it is the source of his spiritual enlightenment in this present day, and it will be the source of his spiritual enlightenment during the ages to come.
Through Abraham God made a Covenant which was fulfilled and renewed by Moses, and in like manner by the Christ, Muhammad, and the Báb who was the immediate forerunner of Bahá'u'lláh the founder of the Covenant of this present day.
All of the prophets and mouth-pieces of God heralded the coming of the great latter day Messiah, "The Ancient of Days", who would found and establish God's Kingdom of Peace and Unity upon earth.  Bahá'u'lláh is that Promised One.  He is the fulfilment of the Covenant made through the prophets of the past.  He has brought the Kingdom of Peace upon earth, and as the point of guidance for the further establishment of His Kingdom, He appointed His beloved son 'Abdu'l-Bahá to be
page 10
the Centre of His Covenant, the establisher and promoter of His Kingdom and Peace in the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's life of service is the Centre of the life of the Kingdom which is the Bahá'í cause.  His servitude to God and service to mankind is the heart from which the life force of the Kingdom is flowing to all the members of that growing spiritual body.  He is the interpreter and the expounder of Holy Writ.  Bahá'u'lláh commanded all to turn to 'Abdu'l-Bahá who is the Greatest Branch branched from the Pre-existent Root-the Centre of the Covenant of God.


III:7, 13 July 1912
page 16
The Centre of the Covenant
The time has come when the Bahá'ís of the West should understand what is intended by "The Centre of the Covenant"; therefore we are pleased to publish in this issue the article from the pen of Charles Mason Remey, "'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant."  A tablet regarding this important subject was recently revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá through Mr Remey.  We publish it herewith:
Tablet to Mr Remey
To his honour Mr Remey-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter was received and I was informed of its contents.  Explain the matter according to the following Teachings, and do not add one word thereto:
His Holiness Abraham-Upon him be Peace!-took the Covenant of His Holiness Moses and gave the glad-tidings of His appearance.  His Holiness Moses took the Covenant of the Promised One, His Holiness the Christ, and gladdened the world with the glad-tidings of His Manifestation.  His Holiness the Christ took the Covenant of the "Paraclete"-which means His Holiness Muhammad-and announced the glad-tidings of His Appearance.  His Holiness Muhammad took the Covenant of His Holiness the Báb, and the Báb was the Promised One of His Holiness Muhammad, for He gave the good news of His Coming.  His Holiness the Blessed Perfection-Bahá'u'lláh-was the Promised One of His Holiness the Báb.  The Blessed Perfection has prophesied of the coming of a Promised One after one thousand years, or after thousands of years.  That Personage is the Promised One of the Blessed Perfection, and He will
page 17
appear after one thousand years or after thousands of years.  Likewise with the trace of the Supreme Pen He has taken a great Covenant and Testament from all the Bahá'ís, that after His Departure they must obey the Centre of the Covenant and must not deviate one hair's breadth from obedience to him.  He has commanded in the most explicit term in two instances in the Book of Aqdas and He has appointed most unmistakably the interpreter of the Book.
In all the Tablets, especially the chapter of "Branch", whose meanings are all 'Abdu'l-Bahá-that is, "the Servant of Bahá"-everything that is necessary is revealed from the Supreme Pen.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the interpreter of the Book, he says that the chapter of "Branch" means 'Abdu'l-Bahá, it refers to the servitude of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and nothing else.
In brief, one of the special favours of this dispensation of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh which is not seen in past Manifestations is this:  that He has left no place for difference.  For in His own Day, with the Trace of His own Supreme Pen He has taken a Covenant and a Testament.  He has pointed to the one who should be looked upon as authority by all, He has shown the interpreter of the Book and has closed the doors of outside interpretation.
Everyone should thank God that in this Blessed Cause He has tranquillized all and has left no place for hesitation.  Therefore obedience and submission must be shown and the face turned completely to him (the Centre of the Covenant).
Restrict discussion to this and do not exceed thereto, so that it may become the cause of fellowship and the remover of differences.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by M. Ahmad Sohráb, Montclair, N.J., 24 June 1912.
Notwithstanding that Bahá'u'lláh pointed to the one who should be looked upon as authority by all and named the interpreter of His Words, leaving no place for difference and misunderstanding, yet it is known that shortly after the departure [death] of Bahá'u'lláh difficulties arose.  The following interview between Badí'u'lláh [brother of 'Abdu'l-Bahá] and Howard MacNutt at the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 'Akká, Syria, 10 January 1905, is a presentation of this important subject of "The Centre of the Covenant" from another standpoint.  It is printed in the Star of the West at the request of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
Interview with Badí'u'lláh
Another afternoon, Badí'u'lláh came in to see us.  Our conversation had been upon "loyalty to the Covenant".  After the interpreter had explained our views, Badí'u'lláh listened gravely for a while, then said:  "Nine days after the ascension of the Blessed Perfection, Bahá'u'lláh the Kitab-i-'Ahd [Book of the Covenant] was read.  After a few days Muhammad 'Alí Effendi [brother of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Badí'u'lláh] and a part of the family withdrew from Abbás Effendi ['Abdu'l-Bahá].  The other members of the family were instigated by words of Muhammad 'Alí to the effect that the Blessed Perfection had written in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas [Book of the Laws] that no Manifestation should appear for one thousand years and that Abbás Effendi was taking the title of "Manifestation" to himself.  This was the cause of the breaking away of part of the family, including myself.  Afterwards I saw some of the actions of Muhammad 'Alí and realized that the reason he had withdrawn from Abbás Effendi was not on account of the words of Bahá'u'lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas but that it had been occasioned by his own feelings.  And I saw too that these actions were not consistent with the commands and writings of the Blessed Perfection.  From this I saw and knew clearly that the cause of his withdrawal had been hatred of Abbás Effendi.  The brother of the wife of Muhammad 'Alí, Mírzá Majdi'd-Dín, was sent by Muhammad 'Alí to Damascus with a letter for the Governor of Damascus.  In that letter Muhammad 'Alí wrote a complaint against Abbás Effendi.  This messenger was also instructed to tell the Governor by word of mouth certain things which would injure the Cause further for Abbás Effendi.  The letter and messages were duly delivered to the Governor-General of Damascus.  In twenty-five days the messenger returned.  Just about that time a telegram came from the Sultán to the Governor-General of Beirut who telegraphed it to the Governor at 'Akká:  "Abbás Effendi and his brothers shall not be allowed to go outside the city."  I was deeply grieved by these happenings.  After thinking over the matter carefully I concluded that the best course would be for Muhammad 'Alí and all the family to come here to Abbás Effendi and reach some understanding so that discord and disunion might no longer exist.  I thought they should come themselves and ask for the truth of these rumours set afloat by Muhammad 'Alí concerning Abbás Effendi.  I myself carne first to Abbás Effendi and told him what I wanted to accomplish.  Then I went to Muhammad 'Alí and said "Do come with me to Abbás Effendi so that all the terrible trouble may cease."  All the family were happy about this proposal of mine, except Muhammad 'Alí himself.  I spoke a great deal to him and tried to persuade him to follow my advice but without success.  I have written out in detail all the conversations I had with Abbás Effendi upon these matters.  What I am giving you today is but a brief synopsis of them.  After hearing my words Muhammad 'Alí spoke a great deal to his family and those who followed him, uttering falsehood and thus driving them further and further away from the prospect of unity.  When I finally realized that reconciliation and harmony were impossible I was so deeply grieved that I became very ill.  When I recovered I wished to leave 'Akká and determined to do so if I could secure permission.  I wrote to the Governor-General of Beirut asking that I "might be removed from this prison to another prison as the conditions were
page 18
so distasteful to me here."  I took a copy of this letter.  Although this prison was the best of all homes to me on account of the Blessed Perfection's life here, yet I was so miserable I wished to leave at any sacrifice.  By the way, all I ever heard Abbás Effendi say proved the rumours set afloat by Muhammad 'Alí to be false and untruthful.  After I had written to the Governor-General of Beirut, I wrote to the Sultán, copying this letter also.  There is a prison on the Island of Rhodes where criminals and offenders are sent.  In my letter to the Sultán I asked that I might be sent to it.  I forwarded this letter to a man in Constantinople asking him to present it to the Sultán.  Afterwards I saw Abbás Effendi and learned that he did not sanction this action, so I wrote immediately to the man in Constantinople, saying, "Do not deliver the letter."  I also wrote to the Governor-General of Beirut countermanding my wish to be removed from 'Akká.  If the letter had been delivered to the Sultán it might have been too late to change the result.  The prisoners at Rhodes are mostly Jews and Turks.  As time went on I found it impossible for me to remain with Muhammad 'Alí.  Finally I went to talk with him again.  Accompanying me as a witness to the conversation was Siyyid 'Alí, a brother of a son-in-law of Abbás Effendi.  I said to Muhammad 'Alí, "If you will go with me to Abbás Effendi, come and go with me now."  He said, "I will not go."  I then took my family and left the house.  I have written two accounts regarding this matter,-one brief, another in full detail, beginning at the time of the Ascension of the Blessed Perfection.  The short one has been translated into English; the long one is not yet translated (January 1905).  The latter account explains everything fully and clearly shows that Muhammad 'Alí's action and behaviour was not on account of his love for the Blessed Perfection but on account of his personal feelings and jealousy.  Since I came to 'Abdu'l-Bahá with my family, fifty men and women have come back to him in love and loyalty.  Five or six returned after a few days; and only day before yesterday five others came to him,-about fifty in all.  The adherents to Muhammad 'Alí do not number fifty all told.  In 'Akká there are two, in Haifa three, in Teheran one and in other places a few.  Only this small number remain in support of him.  And why is this so?  Because it was not for the Glory of God but for his own personal motives that Muhammad 'Alí acted so.  The Blessed Perfection said, "My Cause is to unite men and bind them together; and those who violate this command step away from the protecting Shadow of My Word."  He commanded that we must sow the seeds of love in our hearts, not the thorns of hatred.  Therefore if any of the sons of the Blessed Perfection follow His Word they are under the Shadow of His Command and Protection; and if not, they are afar off.  For example, if the Sultán has a Governor who obeys the Sultán it is the duty of the people to love and obey him because he himself is obedient.  I wish this explanation to be perfectly and clearly understood in America.  In the Persian Hidden Words, Bahá'u'lláh says "O Friend!  In the garden of the heart plant only flowers of love and cling to the Nightingale of Love and yearning."  All must know and realize that he who says that which is not in accordance with the Words of the Blessed Perfection or speaks that which causes discord to arise in human souls is assuredly not one of the servants of God and a follower of the Blessed Perfection.  It is impossible for a true lover to desire to harm his beloved.  If he does that which injures his loved one it is evident that his love is not true.  The sign of a true lover is that all his actions aim to please his beloved.  The first quality of a real lover is that he sacrifices his own desire for the wish and desire of his beloved.  Muhammad 'Alí has followed his own will and desire and has left the Will and Desire of the Beloved.  This is why be failed and fell.


III:8, 1 August 1912
page 5
Interview at Hotel Ansonia, New York City1
'Abdu'l-Bahá, Rev. J. T. Bixby and Rev. Howard Colby Ives present.
13 April 1912
From notes by Howard Macnutt.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The origin of man is one; the consummate intention of all human existence must likewise be one.  The development of a tree is from a seed; the purpose of a tree's existence therefore is to produce a seed.  The fruit of man is love and unity, the development of spiritual susceptibilities through the influence and infusion of Divine Love.  The union of East and West must be accomplished in the soul of man fortified by the Divine Spirit.  This spiritual bond of unity, this power of Divine Love is everlasting.  Its appearance in the soul of man is the purpose of his creation.
America is a great instrument for the accomplishment of world unity.  No other nation of the world stands in a similar position of influence and responsibility.  The fundamental question is the unification of religious belief.  In Persia during the last fifty years a wonderful evidence of such unity has appeared among the various sects and denominations of religionists.  What is witnessed in that country is [an] historical account and record which cannot be denied.  The accomplishment of a fundamental religious unity in Persia is therefore a nucleus which proves the possibility of universal peace among the world nations.
Consider the kingdom of the animals.  There is no strife among them on account of colour or creed.  If you select a pigeon from Persia, another from Germany, another from France, America and so on, you would find them living together in complete union and love.  Because one was American it would not object to its companion from Persia.  The birds of white plumage would not shun those of black and brown.  They would not notice this difference in colour, but would dwell together in pace and harmony.  Should we not at least attain to their state and possibility?  We have reason; we have consciousness.  God has taught us through these channels that we were created for unity and love.  The heavenly Prophets have revealed the principles of His Will and Word.  Let us live in accord with those principles and thereby live in unity with each other.
When the adherents of the former despotic government of Persia found that this unity and harmony was being accomplished among the followers of Bahá'u'lláh, they arose in bigotry and persecution against them.  The clergy especially perceived that their vocation and means of livelihood were threatened.  They persecuted the Bahá'ís with bitterness and ferocity.  They misrepresented this Cause to the Government, saying, "These are the people of rebellion and revolution; these are the enemies of the Sháh"; whereas in fact down to the time of the recent revolution in.  Persia the Bahá'ís have taken no part whatever in political questions and disturbances.  Their clamourous persecutors were the real revolutionists.  These discontents wanted Constitutional rights and privileges.  They were politicians, not religionists.  Today there are many political parties in Persia.  Notwithstanding the spread of rumours intended to excite prejudice against the Bahá'ís, unity and love increased among them, for falsehood cannot stand against the on-rushing stream of Truth.  These enemies said, "The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh sanction one wife and nine husbands";-"the principles of Bahá'u'lláh are communistic and proclaim treason against the throne and government".  All kinds of false and dangerous reports were circulated until even European travellers passing through the country were influenced to believe them.  How different was the reality!  While the Bahá'ís have practical laws upon moral, ethical, civil and governmental questions, their obedience to these laws is always conducive to the uplift, purification and improvement of human conditions and never destructive to the develop-
page 6
ment of individual, community or nation.  Furthermore, the Bahá'ís consider it more blessed and a greater privilege to bestow than to gain and receive.  They believe that bestowing good upon another freely is the greatest means of help to both.  This is not the principle and practice of their calumniators who make even religion a source of livelihood.  According to Bahá'í principles justice and equity in government are not to be attained by force and rebellion against the existing order of things.
The solution of economic questions for instance will not be accomplished by array of labour against capital and capital against labour in strife and conflict, but by voluntary attitude of sacrifice upon both sides.  Then a real and lasting justness of conditions will be brought about.  If a capitalist is forced to give up a portion of his income and possessions there will be no love in his heart; no permanent benefit in his action.  But if it be given in the spirit of the Love of God, everything will be accomplished.  As it is now, the forces of labour strike and the capitalist retaliates.  If the latter should voluntarily add to the scale of wages love is evident and the greatest good results.  Briefly; among the Bahá'ís there are no extortionate, mercenary and unjust practices, no rebellious demands, no revolutionary uprisings against existing governments.
In Persia Bahá'í teachers never accept the slightest coin for their work.  This is so noticeably true that when such recompense is refused it is customary to hear the statement "These are Bahá'ís".  This is the strongest proof of the Bahá'í principles and their power of accomplishment.  How different are the methods and actions of the clergy and priesthood of Persia, whose demands upon the property and possessions of the people are equivalent to pillage and plunder.  For instance, when a man dies, the clergy takes possession of one-third his goods and the other two-thirds goes to his heirs.  Then they accuse the Bahá'ís of doing this;-whereas, in fact, the followers of Bahá'u'lláh are forbidden to accept anything whatever from the property of others.  The Bahá'ís are accustomed to give rather than to receive.1  For instance, ten thousand dollars have been sent to Chicago from the East toward the erection of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
Rev. Bixby:  Did not Professor Edward Browne, of Cambridge University, England, go to 'Akká and was he not received there by Bahá'u'lláh?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Professor Browne visited the East, interviewed various people and automatically wrote down all he heard.  Naturally when he met the enemies of Bahá'u'lláh he heard nothing favorable.  Would you go to the Vatican to hear praises of the Protestants?  Would you consult Jewish rabbis as to the reality of Christ?  In his first book, Professor Browne praised Bahá'u'lláh, but the second account, in which he publishes the statements of enemies, is the reverse.  His books do not agree.
Rev. Bixby:  Is Professor Browne correct in his statement that 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote "A Traveler's Narrative"?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The writer of "A Traveler's Narrative" was not one person.  It contains a statement of Bahá'í principles.  If a book was to be written setting forth the essence of Christianity, a number of Christians would come together for that purpose.
Rev. Bixby:  Is "A Traveler's Narrative" substantially correct?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  It is an authority.
Rev. Bixby:  What is understood to be the relation between the manifestation in Bahá'u'lláh and the manifestations in Moses, Jesus and others?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  It is one basis, one foundation.  Abraham proclaimed the Truth, Moses raised the Standard of Truth.  Jesus established the Truth.  Can we say that any one of them did not found it?  All the prophets have been chosen by God to promulgate The Word.  There can be no multiplicity in the Truth itself.  The teachings of the Manifestations are of two kinds;-first, the Word of God in its outer or material aspect; second, the Word of God in its spiritual or inner significance.  The first named is changeable; the second unchangeable.  The essential principle of their teaching is spiritual.  All the Prophets have come to spread these principles.  Each confirms the spiritual utterance of the former and changes the material forms of teachings and ceremonials.  For instance, the Ten Commandments revealed by Moses were applicable to the time in which he appeared.  They were not applicable to the time of Jesus.  Therefore He abolished and superseded them.
page 7
He also abolished certain laws of Moses which were no longer necessary.  But this change and renewal is of secondary importance to the Spiritual Reality of the Word in Moses and Jesus, for it is the foundation and it is One and Unchangeable.
Rev. Bixby:  Has Bahá'u'lláh revealed obligatory prayers?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The mode and requirements of East and West are different.  It matters not whether we bend the head in the East or the knee in the West.  The purpose of prayer is to come nearer to God;-to pray from the heart fervently.  If the heart is pure, it is beautiful for the tongue to express its ecstasy.
Rev. Bixby:  By what authority is Bahá'u'lláh placed with Abraham, Moses and Jesus?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Today we believe Bahá'u'lláh to be an educator of humanity, as Abraham, Moses and Jesus were educators.  Are His teachings worthy of serious attention?  He originated and proclaimed them.  He caused others to believe and follow them.  What is the function of a teacher and educator of humanity?  By what evidence shall we recognize him?  Is it not his power to train and develop, as children are trained at school?  Has Bahá'u'lláh trained the children of humanity?  If He has opened the doors of human hearts to a higher consciousness, He is a heavenly Educator.  If He has not accomplished this we are privileged to deny His claim and teaching.  For the aim and function of an Educator is to train the children of humanity.  This is His greatest proof; that He has power to uplift humanity.  Bahá'u'lláh either taught higher lessons or did not.  If He did, He has fulfilled His claim.  The mission of a physician is to heal sickness and relieve the ailing.  When he heals there is no doubt of his ability as a physician.  If he cannot heal the sick he is disqualified.  We accept the Teachings of Moses, Jesus, Abraham and Adam because unmistakably they came to educate humanity.  For example, Moses arose at a time of the lowest ignorance and humiliation of the Hebrew nation.  Did He not free them from the bondage of Egypt?  Did He not train, educate and organize them as a nation and people.  As a consequence of His discipline did they not attain a zenith of power?  Yes, unmistakably,-up to the time of Solomon.  The philosophers of Greece came to Palestine, sat at the feet of the Hebrew sages and were taught by them the fundamental principles of life.  Moses produced this result from ignorance and slavery.  Can we deny history?  Can we deny that He was an Educator?
Rev. Bixby:  Has Bahá'u'lláh done this?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Yes!  In Persia especially He has accomplished this miracle of training and education.  Ere long, Persia will attain a high degree of civilization.
Rev. Bixby:  Is Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl an apostle, prophet or one delegated with special authority?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  We do not have apostles, prophets and special leaders, because all are servants.  We have no ecclesiastical order or authority. Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl was trained and taught by Bahá'u'lláh; His disciple in this sense.  He was near to Bahá'u'lláh; but he has no special station except the station of service.
Rev. Bixby:  Were the "Letters of the Living" appointed by the Báb abrogated by Bahá'u'lláh?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The "Letters of the Living" were at first eighteen in number.  The Báb said, "Go forth and teach others the Message you have received."  Among them were some of great ability, who became prominent.  Some disappeared.  They were not appointed as a secret order.  Bahá'u'lláh did not abrogate their function.  As an organization of believers in the Báb it passed away by itself, naturally.  The Báb said, "These are the acceptors of my teachings."  They had no official station.  He did not depend upon them as His clergy.  They were servants of the Cause of God.  Whoever is near to God is a servant of God.
Rev. Bixby:  Did not Subh-i-Azal occupy an authoritative position?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'u'lláh educated him just as He educated Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl and myself.  Subh-i-Azal separated voluntarily.  He did not follow his Teacher as we have done.  Therefore we do not mention his name.  We have no quarrel with those who differ, but are commanded to love them.
Rev. Bixby:  How can we receive more from the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh than from the Words of Jesus?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Jesus and the former Prophets laid the foundation of the Cause of God,-the Heavenly Kingdom.  But their followers forget and overlook the foundation.  Christ said, "Ye must be born again of water and spirit."  "As children from the womb, so must ye be born again of Spirit"  The essence of His meaning was that those who were taught by Him and became His real followers would
page 8
become free from world-imperfections; they would become perfect, redeemed from animalism and human passions, transformed into angels; that is to say the earthly would become heavenly.  These are the real disciples of Christ.  These are real Christians.  Galen, a Greek philosopher, who was pagan and not Christian, writing upon the subject of "Ancient Civilization of Nations", states that "the greatest shaping influences in the civilization of nations are religious principles; and that the effect of Christianity upon the lives and morals of its adherents is a great proof of this statement."  Now Bahá'u'lláh came and brought a new life into the hearts of mankind.  He reversed the order of many former teachings.  Vast numbers of His followers live in accord with the principles He set forth.  Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl for instance, whom you have named, was firmly fixed in his religious belief.  Under the influence of Bahá'u'lláh's words, he arose to serve this Cause.  He was thrown into prison two years;-he was persecuted and driven out of Persia.  Under all conditions of distress and suffering, he was thankful and filled with happiness,constantly Serving the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.  This is the strongest proof that the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh have within them the same power to mould and influence human lives as the Teachings of Jesus.  They free the souls of men from world-attachments and imperfections.  They open the doors in this age of the world to perfection.  The Jews admit that Jesus appeared in the world and taught heavenly principles.  If Christ had not appeared after Moses the mention of Moses would have been lost.  The foundation of Jesus and the foundation of Moses were the same.  The foundation of Bahá'u'lláh is likewise the same as Moses and Jesus.  All religion has the same foundation.
Furthermore, consider how Bahá'u'lláh has upraised the standard of Christ in the East, in countries and among peoples where there was formerly no mention of Christ's name.  He established the truth of the Bible among those who shunned and hated the Bible.  They considered it a righteous act to burn and destroy the Book of Christianity.  Bahá'u'lláh has taught them to read the Bible.
Rev. Bixby:  Was Christ the Word?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'u'lláh has clearly explained and defined the "Word".  Christianity, as explained by its followers has taught that Christ is the Word and the Son of God.  What is the meaning of this?  Bahá'u'lláh has explained that seers and prophets are as letters incomplete in meaning.  He shows that human intellects are imperfect, incomplete, but Christ was the All-Surrounding Word and synonymous with Perfection.  As He contained all Perfections and Attributes He was the Word and this wonderful title was conferred upon Him.  But seers, prophets and disciples are as "letters"-without complete significance.
Rev. Bixby:  Was Bahá'u'lláh also the Word in the flesh?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Yes!  Because He had all the perfections.
Rev. Bixby:  Did Abraham embody the Word?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  We cannot differentiate the attributes of the Word of God; we cannot differentiate perfections.  Abraham announced the Divine Truth.  It is not necessary to lower Abraham to raise Jesus.  It is not necessary to lower Jesus to proclaim Bahá'u'lláh.  We must spread the Truth of God wherever we behold it.  The essence of the question is that all these Great Messengers came to raise the Divine Standard of Perfections.  All of them shine as stars in the same heaven of the Divine Will.  All of them give Light to the world.
Rev. Bixby:  Did Bahá'u'lláh fulfil Jesus as Jesus fulfilled Moses?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Yes! by spreading the renown and glory of Jesus.  The aim of Moses, Jesus and Bahá'u'lláh was to train humanity toward divine perfections.  Can we train the world upward by imperfections?
[At the conclusion of this interview 'Abdu'l-Bahá arose and came toward Rev. Bixby, his arms filled with large white roses.  As he placed them upon the bosom of his visitor, literally burying him in them, he said, "These beautiful roses will express to you the love and fragrance of the Bahá'í Spirit."]


III:10, 8 September 1912
page 3
Taking of the moving picture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá,
The Centre of the Covenant
J. G. Grundy and H. MacNutt
Shortly after 'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived in New York City, a moving picture concern requested him to pose before their camera.  He replied at once, "Khaylí khúb" ("Very good").  Some of the Bahá'í friends who were present were very much upset by the decision and hastened to inform him that his photograph would be scattered all over the country in moving picture houses and theatres.  He replied, "Besyár khúb" ("Most good").  The result was that he appeared before the camera at the entrance of the Hotel Ansonia, for a very short film.
It was a wonderfully impressive sight, for, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, as he approached the camera, was exhorting Bahá'u'lláh to bless this means for the spreading of the Heavenly Cause throughout the world.
Early in June we conceived the idea of an extended motion picture in which 'Abdu'l-Bahá, would appear in various scenes.  He consented at once, and made every effort-after several postponements on account of the weather-to have the picture completed.  The response of the friends by subscription was most willing and generous.  The picture was taken at the home of Mr and Mrs Howard MacNutt, 935 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, N.Y.
The first scene was somewhat curtailed by the fact that 'Abdu'l-Bahá, did not remain in focus, but hurried into the house, somewhat disarranging the scenario.  This happened also in the fourth scene where he appears alone; we had hoped he would stand longer before the camera.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, seemed very much impressed by all the scenes, especially the final ensemble-his utterances coming forth with wonderful intensity and power.  All these were never-to-be-forgotten scenes, but those who beheld his countenance in the final utterance of the "Glad-Tidings" will treasure the memory of it forever.
page 4
'Abdu'l-Bahá's object in this motion picture is that it shall become an instrument for spreading the message of the Bahá'í Revelation throughout the world.  From the negative secured he intends to take a number of films into the East-Egypt, Persia, India and other countries.  The influence this will exert is beyond any power of estimation.
Furthermore, it is our intention-'Abdu'l-Bahá's consent having already been willingly given-to take a record of his voice on the Edison talking machine.  This record will be heard in conjunction with the moving picture film and slides.  Human power of invention can go no further in reproducing 'Abdu'l-Bahá, for the benefit of the coming generations.  The greatest effect will be apparent in those coming years long after the Blessed Subject himself has passed from this earthly world.  Consider what this means!  The beloved friends one hundred years from now will be able to see the form, face, and actions of the Beloved Centre of the Covenant; and even more, listen to the actual tone of his voice speaking the words which the pictures so eloquently portray.
It is our hope and expectation that the exhibit of the moving picture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, with its accessories, will become a most powerful instrument in this country for the spreading of the Most Great Message of Peace and Unity.  May all Heavenly blessings follow this earnest effort.
__________
[On Sunday morning, 11 August, the Bahá'ís of Chicago were privileged to see the moving picture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, for the first time.  The occasion was made doubly enjoyable through the presence of Mr Howard MacNutt, who told how the picture was taken-the substance of which is incorporated in the foregoing.  The film shown is owned by the Star of the West.
An exhibition of the moving picture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá with complete accessories was given at Golden Gate Theatre, W. 128th St., New York City, 14 August.  Explanatory talks were given by Mr MacNutt and Mr Grundy, stereopticon slides were shown, making altogether an interesting programme of over an hour.
Hearing of the moving picture film owned by the Star of the West in Chicago, the Bahá'ís of Muskegon, Fruitport (Michigan) and vicinity expressed a desire to see it.  Through the efforts of Mrs Corinne True, whose summer home is in Fruitport, and Mrs Helene Bagg arrangements were made, and on Sunday morning, 25 August, it was exhibited in Muskegon.  The showing of the picture, the presence of Miss Gertrude Buikema, Mr Albert R. Windust, and Mr George Latimer, of Portland, Oregon-who had recently visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in Dublin, New Hampshire-was made the occasion of a happy outdoor Bahá'í gathering at Lake Michigan Park during the afternoon.  Mr Latimer read from notes taken while with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and addresses were made by the friends.-The Editors.]


III:10, 8 September 1912
page 7
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, at 261 West 139th St., New York City Home of Mr and Mrs Arthur P. Dodge, 16 April 1912.
Notes by Miss Juliet Thompson.
Question:  Shall we have a temporary Mashriqu'l-Adhkár?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  In those places where they have no Mashriqu'l-Adhkár they rent a house and call it by that name.  Today the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in Chicago has great importance.  All the Bahá'ís must turn their faces in that direction.  Why is it so impor-
page 8
tant?  Because it has become known throughout the East and the West that the Bahá'ís wish to build a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  It has found great importance.  All ears are waiting for news coming from Chicago about the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
The matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár does not depend upon personal endeavour,-it needs united endeavour.  When in 'Ishqábád the believers desired to build the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, all the friends centred their attention upon that place.  There was no personality anywhere.  And thus they were able to build.
Question:  Those who assume the direction of Bahá'í affairs are often criticized.  If a man has a superior intellect, should he come down to the station of those who are less capable?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Capacity and privilege in this Cause are intrinsic.  Whosoever has a greater power of speech, whosoever has a greater power of attraction, whosoever has a greater sincerity, will advance, no matter what happens.  In other movements, positions are like public offices; but in this Cause the people advance because of their innate qualities, because their works echo in the hearts of men.
In Persia there are many Bahá'ís who are the centre of all the friends.  When the friends of God find that a soul has arisen to serve the Cause in sincerity, they accept him with heart and soul.  They do not doubt him; they believe in what he says and consider that to believe in what he says is to believe in and to obey God.  It is true that all souls are not equal.  Some souls are in high stations of exaltation,-in the vanguard of the army; some are in the second rank.  This is an innate Cause.  The friends of God must have utmost consideration for those souls who are sincere and endeavouring to serve in the Cause.
For example, when we see a man doing public service, we must have consideration for him; if he gives a good address, we must praise him; if he makes wise suggestions, and if good intentions appear from him, we must have for him the greatest consideration.
I will relate to you a story, the conclusion of which you will understand:  After the appearance of the Báb, the disciple who succeeded Him was called "Bábu'l-Báb".  He was almost worshipped.  When His Highness the Báb had passed away, all hearts turned to Bábu'l-Báb.  While His Highness Bábu'l-Báb was travelling with three hundred and sixty staunch believers, His Highness Quddús, who was another great teacher, was as his disciple,-like his servant.  While Bábu'l-Báb sat, Quddús always stood before him.  But one day there came a great change.  Quddús was found sitting and Bábu'l-Báb standing before him.  All were astonished.  Then His Highness Bábu'l-Báb, addressing the people, said:  "I did not before know the station of Quddús.  Tonight I realize that I am less than the dust of his feet."  Later he sacrificed his life in the path of Quddús.
The believers in this city must have the utmost consideration for each other.  None must try to precede the other.  Those souls who are distinguished among the friends must receive due consideration.
Question:  Does not this distinction come about naturally when one is severed, and is it not a spiritual distinction rather than intellectual?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Distinction1 is good-all distinctions are good-distinction of intellect-distinction of sincerity-all; because distinction means development.
Question:  Is not distinction dangerous for the individual?
'Abdu'l-Bahá, (laughing):  All people are in danger.  Man, in whatsoever degree he chances to be, is in danger.  Can you single out a man who is beyond danger?
We are all servants of the One Threshold.  These remarks are unnecessary.  We must serve this Threshold.  This is truth.  We must love each other perfectly.  If we are in such a state, the confirmations of God will reach us.  If other discussions creep in, there will be a cessation of confirmation.  Service must be rendered to this Threshold.  The Blessed Perfection Bahá'u'lláh has trained us that we may pass our time in the discussion of things spiritual; that is ideal.  We must be engaged in things conducive to the onward growth of man.  Hence we must pray that He may accept us at His Threshold; that He may preserve us; that He may usher us into His Kingdom.  This is praiseworthy.  This is essential.
Question:  Suppose you reason out something, and your reason tells you it is true?  In the Seven Valleys it is said that when the "fire of Love becomes ablaze, the harvest of reason is consumed."  How is this?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  That is not to be taken literally.  It has an inner meaning.  It refers to ordinary reasoning.  For example:  a soul in Persia who became a believer endangered his very life.  Now, what would the ordinary
page 9
intellect say?  Preserve your life!  Preserve your property!  But he who is set on fire with God's love will forego all possessions.  On such occasions his actions appear insane; but he is in a sacrificial state.  Honour, glory, everything pertaining to himself, is sacrificed.  Bahá'u'lláh means that the harvest of reason becomes consumed by the fire of faith.  In such a state a man appears insane.  Those who see him under such circumstances would say:  "Here is a man who has good position, who has honour, affluence, influence,-a man of competence, and he has sacrificed all of these in the path of some mysterious thing!"
Question:  What are the "seventy-two degrees of insanity" spoken of by Bahá'u'lláh?
Answer:  One is to forfeit possessions, to forfeit estates.  One is to forego name, honour, fame.  One is to forsake relatives, station.  Et cetera [ended 'Abdu'l-Bahá, laughing], et cetera, et cetera.  Each one of these is a distinct insanity!


III:10, 8 September 1912
page 16
The trumpet call:  "life" or "death"-which?
Although the Star of the West has published only a portion of the Addresses of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, delivered in America, it must be evident to many that he is talking upon every subject necessary to the investigation and acceptance of the Reality of Religion, both scientifically and spiritually.
That all may be alive to the truth of this statement when reading forthcoming Addresses in the Star of the West-for there are many forthcoming-and realize the importance of the matter, we respectfully direct the attention of the friends to the following:
Previous to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's recent decision to journey to the Pacific Coast, and during his return visit to New York City, in answer to a question from one of the friends, he gave the impression that he would not go west again and would depart in one month for the Orient.  When it was remarked that this would disappoint a great many people [we quote the letter received by us], "he replied that he had talked on every subject, from the scientific as well as psychological basis and that he breathed on the souls and spirits of all the- Bahá'ís in such a way that had it been upon bone, it would have taken on flesh (meaning, as 1 understood it, that he had given really life-giving spirit) and that if their souls were not on fire now, verily they were dead-just as a tree which is not green and does not show forth any signs of life though the most nourishing life-giving rains are pouring down upon it, and the fresh spring breezes blowing down upon it.  In all this he seemed to say that he had done all that he could do and now it lay upon those whom he had blessed to do the rest.  If they were not awakened after all this, then, verily, they were as dead and dried up."
The Editors


III:11, 27 September 1912
page 3
With 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Dublin, New Hampshire
Joseph H. Hannen
At a mean altitude of something like 1,700 feet (and that, if one may be pardoned an apparent anachronism, is no mean altitude) the historic village of Dublin lies, a gem amid the verdure-clad hills of New Hampshire, and recently shining with particular lustre because of the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá The Servant of God, and the consequent centring of the spiritual rays, which focus from all the world where he is.
The village of Dublin proper is three miles from the railroad, the station being Harrisville.  Antedating the railroad, it is one of the points which even that willing servant of the people, which winds and twists tortuously in an effort to oblige all, has not reached.  And this is fortunate for the preservation of the beauties of nature.  The population of Dublin during the summer is about five times that of the winter, and as a resident says, it might as well be locked up in midwinter, as indeed it is isolated by the elements.  But now the winters are usually busy seasons of building, as new summer homes are planned, the while nature is creating materials for the glorious panorama of recurring spring and summer.  For many picturesque and splendid estates are to be found here, making of this favoured spot a kind of Switzerland, with lines softened because of the wooded hills and the abundant verdure of the earth, which burgeons and blossoms in almost tropical luxuriance.
Here the traveller is reminded of Haifa, in Syria, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá agreed to the resemblance, adding, "It is warmer there!" for even in midsummer the air in Dublin is delightfully cool and the nights almost cold.
Hither the writer with Mrs Hannen and Miss Knobloch was bidden, to spend a night and a day.  Reaching Harrisville late in the afternoon of Tuesday, 30 July 1912, our first and joyful surprise was to be met at Harrisville by 'Abdu'l-Bahá who had come over from Dublin with Mrs Parsons for that purpose, the latter also welcoming an expected guest.  Mírzá Valí'u'lláh Khán was on hand to interpret and to add to the home-coming aspect of the occasion.  First bestowing his guests in a waiting automobile and seeing to their comfort and happiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá joined Mrs Parsons and Mrs Ford in a carriage, and we were rapidly whisked to the Dublin Inn, a quaint and exquisitely-appointed hostelry just suited to the surroundings.  Such is the magic of this place that in the vastness of the hill-country even the "honk, honk!" of the auto, seemed subdued, and the sense of being part of a scene of primal magnificence was not disturbed by the means of transportation, the electric lights and modern conveniences which abound.  Dublin has long been known to the friends as the summer home of Mr and Mrs Arthur J. Parsons, and now for a time it is the Spiritual Summer Capital f the Republic of Religions-God's Covenant with man of which 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the Centre!
At the inn we found Mrs Hoagg and Mrs Cline, of San Francisco, and we learned that Mr George Latimer, of Portland, Oregon, was also a visitor.  As we had come from Portland, Maine, and Washington, the meeting of extremes was evidenced by the fact that the little party of pilgrims were from Portland, Maine, to Portland, Oregon, San Francisco to Washington, thus spanning the continent from two points, a demonstration of the power of the Word of Bahá'u'lláh.  Then in the party with 'Abdu'l-Bahá were representatives of Persia, Syria, Russia and Egypt.  A cosmopolitan gathering truly, and one which is attracting much attention in that section; although the naturalness and simplicity manifested by all makes them seem quite at home.  This was manifested by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the station; the master of the situation, issuing his orders quietly, passing around among trainmen and officials, the scene might well have been in 'Akká or Haifa!
page 4
As soon as we were comfortably ensconced at the Inn, 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited us, and there ensued one of those delightful meetings which characterize such occasions.  He asked if we were well; if we were happy, if our rooms were comfortable, and exhibited the tender solicitude of a host to his guests, or more properly, a father to his children.  Then ensued the following:
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "In returning, I will certainly go to Europe."
Miss Knobloch:  "To Stuttgart?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Perhaps." (Laughing)
Mrs Hannen:  "They are supplicating for it.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "See how much we have moved from one place to another.  How far New York is from here:  Washington, Chicago, Philadelphia, the many places we have visited.  And now these ladies have come to invite me to come to California.  They are supplicating that I should come to California.  Now these two have come to insist that we shall go; and letters are coming about it.  A letter came yesterday from the Spiritual Assembly, asking how it came that we went to other places and not there.  Now Mrs Hoagg is going to build an aeroplane and take me there.  What do you advise?  Shall I ride on it?"
Mrs Hannen:  "It would not be very safe."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "When I ride on it, it is the Ark of Noah.  This aeroplane will become the Ark of Noah."  (This was accompanied by an exchange of smiles which showed 'Abdu'l-Bahá's keen sense of humour.)
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Tonight I have promised to be present at the house of Mrs Parsons at 8 o'clock."
When told that we were happy to have had 'Abdu'l-Bahá with us, the reply was, "I am very happy also."
At 'Abdu'l-Bahá's House, Dublin, Wednesday morning, 31 July
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Anyone whom I send to a place is confirmed; anyone.  One of them is Miss Alma Knobloch.  God has confirmed her.  In the beginning she was teaching in Stuttgart.  Now she is in Leipzig."
One of our party was obliged to leave on the afternoon train because of a promise made to another; 'Abdu'l-Bahá desired all to remain, but upon hearing of the facts said, "Let two remain and one go."
"The Bahá'ís must be prompt in the fulfilment of their promises, and perform whatever promise they have given.
"In reality, the length or shortness of the meeting has no influence whatever.  It depends upon capacity.  A piece of dry wood, as soon as it comes in contact with fire, receives the ignition, but a piece of wet wood, even if it stays in the fire a long time, is not ignited; it will only produce smoke and fumes.  No matter how long a piece of stone is in the fire it will not dissolve.  Therefore the length of time has no sway whatever.  There must be capacity.  Although the length of time of the meeting with Mr Hannen is short, yet it is my hope that its results may become manifold.  From here with a shining face, a merciful heart and a heavenly power may you return and become the cause of the guidance of the people; to be the cause of the firmness of the souls in the Covenant.
"I desire to answer some letters that Miss Knobloch has sent.  They have been here for some time, but there has been no opportunity whatever to answer them."
After a time of dictation to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb:  "I am writing while you are silent.  Is this permitted? [To Miss Knobloch and Mrs Hannen.]  You enjoy it because the letter is to your sister.  It is fortunate for her that I find time to answer today.  Letters come by bundles, but there is no time to answer them."
'Abdu'l-Bahá finished dictation, and surveying the mountains with a convenient field-glass, commented on the beauty of the panorama.  It was indeed matchless-superb.  In the distance a chain of mountains stretched, lofty Monadnock the highest, the others reaching as far as the eye could see.  In English he said:  "Good mountains; good green; good meadow; good plain; good view.  Speak to me.  Speak to me!"  Told of the study of the Íqán in the Wednesday night meetings in Washington, his comment was, "Very good!  Very good!  It is very good to memorize the logical points and the proofs of the Holy Books.  Those proofs and evidences which establish the fact that Bahá'u'lláh is the fulfilment of the Promises of the Holy Books.  These proofs ought to be collected and memorized.  As soon as someone will ask you-What are your proofs?-you may cry out at the top of your voice and say:  'Here they are!'"
A question was asked based upon the familiar reply to those who say there is good in all things:  "What shall we say when they ask, 'Of what use are the flies and mosquitoes?'"
"Answer the questioner:  'What is the use
page 5
of your creation?  What benefit have you given to the world?'  The same benefit that you have given to the world, the mosquito has.  You say that the mosquito harms, and sucks in the human blood; but you kill animals and eat them.  You do not suck blood, but decapitate the animals.  Therefore, you are more harmful than the mosquito.  By this, I mean that man commits greater sins.  But that which is the reality of the matter is this:  The world of life, the world of existence is connected, each with the other.  All the created beings are the members of this stupendous body.  Each one is a member, and that member should not remain imperfect.  If that member is, for instance, harming the human body, but it is useful from some other standpoint, because it is one member of the members of this creational book, is it allowable that a member of the members of this great world be imperfect?  For instance, we do not know what is the use of this nail.  It grows and it is cut again.  We see that we have the nail; but we do not know that there are a thousand wisdoms within the creation of this nail.  For instance, men ask:  Why should we have the beard; why should we have the moustache?  They shave.  But in reality there is a great wisdom in this.  It is healthful.  The skin receives the oxygen through the beard."
Asking for further questions, the problem of contributing for the care of Bahá'ís who may be sick or infirm, was presented; in view of the fact that there are many demands at times and the friends are able to do but little, generally speaking.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The Friends must strive and show efforts and assist.  Whosoever is a believer and assured, firm in the Cause, there is no doubt that he will contribute towards the assistance of the poor.  This is an evidence of the faith.  But if a person comes in contact with another who is in the utmost need, and he sees that he can help, and if he fails, this is an evidence of the weakness of his faith.  If his faith is firm and strong, it is impossible for him not to assist.  There is no greater trial than the test of riches.  Whosoever you see that he is helping and assisting the poor ones according to his ability, know of a certainty that his faith is strong.  Continue according to your ability, not beyond your power, and tell him to content himself with it.  Not that he may receive your assistance and not look out for himself.  He is not able to work, that is why he needs assistance; if he were able to work it is not allowable to assist him.  Lazy people should not be assisted; otherwise everybody would leave his work and expect others to support them.  There would be no end to it.  But there may be someone who is either unable to work or is striving to find some work and is not able to find it; it is not really a shortcoming but he cannot succeed.  Such souls are to be assisted.  The aim is this, that the friends of God must assist each other, and in assistance be greater than all the other communities of the world.  If one of the friends find out that another has no food for this evening, for instance, he should not rest, he should not sleep till he finds food for him.  All the members of humanity are in need of each other."
At 9:30 a.m., 31 July, 'Abdu'l-Bahá on the veranda of His house
Walking to and fro and addressing Mr Latimer:  "The Bahá'í must first be informed of the Principles and Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh then go forth and spread the Message.  It is like unto a soldier, who must arm himself with the buckler and armour, and then he enters the battlefield to fight against the foe.  But if he goes to fight without arming himself, he will be defeated.  The Bahá'ís are the Army of God.  Their defensive armours or weapons are:  First, Faith; second, Assurance; third, Severance; fourth, Complete Attraction to the Kingdom of Abhá.  If they are armed with these weapons, they will gain the victory in whatever field they may enter.  As long as he is not equipped with these weapons, he will not be successful.  He must cut himself entirely from all imitations.  In Persia we were under the sword.  From one moment to the other we had no assurance of life, and during our long imprisonment we were in constant danger.  As we were not attached to this life, we were entirely forgetful of these outward conditions.  Therefore we remained firm.  We did not notice the gleaming, flashing swords around us.  But in reality we were happy. [Here he laughed heartily.]  At that time there were many severe tests, but there was abundant spirituality.  We were walking on the earth, but in reality we were soaring toward the Supreme Concourse. [Laughing]:  What were those days, and what are these days!  Those days were the cause of the development of the souls.  Those days people progressed and advanced spiritually.  During the eventful days of Nasiri'd-Dín Sháh, those people who were Bahá'ís were fearless, filled with the glad-tidings of God, overflowing with supplication and
page 6
communion.  When a Bahá'í walked in the streets, in his heart he was praying to God, begging of God-'Make me a sacrifice in Thy Path!  Let the enemies surround me, carry me to the arena of martyrdom, make me a ransom to Thy Cause!'  It is very easy now to be martyred, but it was very difficult at that time.  Those frightful looking soldiers, those horrible executioners, those dreadful farrashes, and especially the cannoneers with their fierce moustaches.  They threw fear into the hearts of the staunchest and the firmest.  Yet the friends were most firm and resolute before the faces of these beings of terror.  At the time of trials, wonderful confirmations descend upon man, regenerating him and making him a new creation.
"Mírzá Qurbán 'Alí, who was one of the Seven Martyrs, a man of great piety and learning, was a strong Bábí, but he was very fearful and timid.  He was so fearful of being known as a Bábí that when he met the friends in the streets he would not look at them.  He shunned their association.  Yet the enemies found him out somehow, and brought him into the prison house.  As he was well known among the military class for his wisdom and devotion, two of these influential officers went to Mírzá Taqí Khán, the Prime Minister, and interceded for him.  When the Prime Minister found out that such important men were interceding for him, he became very lenient and told them to bring him to him so that he might recant.  This Prime Minister was such a domineering and blood-thirsty man that the army was in constant fear of him, so that when he was reviewing the army if he just turned his eyes upon one of the soldiers he would tremble and shake with fear.  Finally these two officers took Mírzá Qurbán 'Alí to the Prime Minister, and they were so happy in the thought that he would be released before long.  When he came before the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister looked at him and said:  'These friends of yours have interceded for you.  Are you ready to repudiate 'Alí Muhammad (The Báb)?'  Mírzá Qurbán 'Alí, looking around, saw the executioner about fifteen feet from him, standing, and then he turned to the Minister and asked:  'Whom shall I repudiate, 'Alí or Muhammad?'  (Muhammad being the Prophet and 'Alí the son-in-law, they are considered the Holy Ones in the Muslim world.  The name of the Báb is composed of these two.)  The Prime Minister became so angry that he ordered the executioners to take him away and kill him, and he left the presence of the Prime Minister with serene face and a heavenly smile on his countenance.  At such a time, a firm believer is known!"


III:12, 16 October 1912
page 8
The Christian Commonwealth
The Tablets presented herewith are self-explanatory.  We might add, however, that the matter came up when Mr Albert Dawson, editor of The Christian Commonwealth, wrote to Mr Joseph H. Hannen suggesting that someone be appointed Correspondent of his paper for the Bahá'í Cause, offering space in his columns.  The letter was sent to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the following was revealed:
To his honour Mr Hannen-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-Washington, D.C.
HE IS GOD!
O thou my heavenly friend!
The letter which was written to you by the Editor of the Christian Commonwealth was perused.  It is better that you be the Correspondent of this Journal, and spread it everywhere.  This person (Mr Albert Dawson) is a very excellent man, and showed us great love while we were in London.  Therefore, the American Bahá'ís must exercise toward him much respect.  You correspond with him and send him the enclosed Tablet.
Show this Tablet that I write to you to all the Bahá'ís, so that those friends who are able may subscribe to his paper.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
To his honour Mr Albert Dawson-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-London, England.
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved friend!
The letter which thou hast written to Mr Hannen was read.  I became very grateful and thankful to you.  We have appointed Mr Hannen to be your Correspondent, and we are hopeful in the Divine Favours to confirm and assist you in all the affairs.
It is my expectation to be in London before long, and then I shall find you there.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


II:13, 4 November 1912
page 8
Tablet to the Editor of The Palo Altan
To his honour Mr H. W. Simkins-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
At the time I met you and felt the susceptibilities of your conscience my heart and soul became greatly attached to that dear friend (i.e. yourself) and the utmost love was produced, and the spiritual emotions were obtained.  Your visit gave me the utmost happiness.  The address delivered in Stanford University and published completely in your paper was observed today-and on account of it I became both pleased and grateful.  In order to express my pleasure and appreciation for this service of yours I am writing you this epistle.
I shall never forget your cordiality, and as long as life lasts I shall remember you.  I beg of God, that that dear friend (yourself) may become like unto a shining star in the horizon of Reality, and become the cause of bestowing spiritual life upon the world of humanity.
The address delivered at the Jewish temple establishing the validity of His Holiness Jesus Christ and inviting the Jews to believe in Him is enclosed herein.  From its powerful contents you will realize that though there were many conservative Jews in the audience, yet in the most dauntless manner the validity of Christ was proven.  After reading its contents should you think it best you may print it fully without abbreviation in the columns of your paper that others of the Jews may read it.  Perchance this may prove an impetus for their respect for, and belief in Christ, that this strife and contention that has lasted between the two nations for two thousand years may disappear, and the oneness of the world of humanity be unveiled.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
'Abdu'l-Bahá


III:13, 4 November 1912
page 11
'Abdu'l-Bahá in San Francisco, California
[First section is in The Star of the West, III:12, pp. 9-10.]
Frances Orr Allen
[Extracts]
...
The next morning, 'Abdu'l-Bahá made quite a different visit-not to one of the great universities, but to the humble home of one of the friends, Charles Tinsley, a coloured man, who was confined to his bed on account of a broken leg.  During this visit, 'Abdu'l-Bahá told a beautiful story of a ruler who trained the subject he loved best in order to fit him to hold the most important place in his kingdom-told how he scourged him, and maimed him, and caused him all manner of sorrow and suffering that he might know for himself what these conditions were in reality, meanwhile assuring him that he loved him and that only through this training could he be fitted for the great place he had destined him to fill.
...
The most remarkable public address given during the visit to the Coast was on Saturday morning, 12 October, at Temple Emmanu-El.  It was a wonderful sight, 'Abdu'l-Bahá standing in the pulpit of that magnificent synagogue, between pillars of palms.  The morning sunshine came dimly through the beautiful coloured windows, descending as in benediction and approval of the call to righteousness, once more being given to the chosen people of the Lord.  In their own synagogue, he proved to the congregation the validity of Christ.  He called upon them to investigate Reality,-not to be bound by dogma.  He urged them to respect the name of Christ and of Muhammad, and, above all, exhorted them to be kind.
From the synagogue 'Abdu'l-Bahá was driven to Mrs Goodall's Oakland home, where Children's Day was to be observed.  The afternoon was especially for the little ones, whom 'Abdu'l-Bahá loves so tenderly.  The spacious parlours were filled with the children and their parents and friends, and the rooms were sweet with the fragrance of many flowers.  The children greeted him with the beautiful song, "Softly His Voice Is Calling Now".  Calling them to him, he gave them candy and flowers, and then went to each one, child and adult, and gave an envelope, containing rose leaves.  He named the children "radiant children".  They followed him about and he took the little ones in his arms.  Later the children gathered on the steps, where a photograph was taken.  It was a beautiful afternoon.  Truly one who has not seen 'Abdu'l-Bahá with the children has missed a great deal.
At 3:30 o'clock of the following day, Sunday, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke in the reading room
page 12
of the blind, at 1665 Jackson Street, San Francisco, where during the week instruction is given in manual training.  To this meeting were invited, also, the blind from the Adult Home in Oakland, and the children and youth from the State Educational Institution in Berkeley.  The service opened with a beautiful song by a child.  'Abdu'l-Bahá first paid a tribute to Mrs Rowan, through whose efforts the teaching at this place is made possible.  Then he spoke of how, in receiving education, the blind are being endowed with sight.  He told them-even though deprived of sight, having insight-they must not sorrow.  Sight is only for a time, but insight is divine and discovers the Kingdom, sees the beauty of God.  Though deprived of a drop, they possess the ocean, for insight comprehends all the other senses.  He closed by saying, "May you not see dust, but purity-see the beauty of Christ, of Bahá'u'lláh and all holy souls."
In the evening, many of the friends gathered in the parlour and 'Abdu'l-Bahá told them of his visit to the beach.  He likened humanity to a sea,-at times smooth, at other times in motion.  The sea in motion is most like life, even when tempestuous; when in motion, each hour brings results.  He said:  "Seek to dive in the spiritual sea and bring up pearls; seek to find that sea."
At the conclusion of the talk, he spoke of musical instruments, saying all are imperfect, but that Bahá'u'lláh brought to earth a heavenly, divine instrument where each soul could find and strike his note and the music would be a heavenly chorus, and eternal.  At this gathering there were Persians, Swiss, Hindu, Holland, Canadian, French, English, Japanese and Americans-all in love and fellowship.
Wednesday, 16 October, 'Abdu'l-Bahá and party returned from a short visit to the country.  To the nine Portland friends, who had arrived, he said, "Be happy, no tears! no tears!"  Some of these friends had come at great sacrifice.  One little boy said to his mother, "Why do you cry, mother?  It is silly to cry here."  In the afternoon 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the Century Club on Equality between men and women.  He spoke of woman's superiority in kindness and tenderness, and, when necessary, in valour and courage.
The evening of 16 October will never be forgotten, because of the memorable feast, held at the home of Mrs Goodall, in Oakland.  The beautiful rooms were filled with tables, adorned with yellow chrysanthemums and pyramids of fruit.  The friends gathered quietly and talked in low but joyous tones.  All seemed to feel the evening to be one set apart from all other evenings, for at this feast it was our great privilege to have 'Abdu'l-Bahá with us.  There were one hundred and ten present, friends from the Bay Cities and also from Portland and Seattle.
When all were seated at table, 'Abdu'l-Bahá requested that we partake of the food so bountifully provided, while he walked about speaking words of wisdom and love, giving us the spiritual food, for which we hungered.  Then, from the stairs, he pronounced a benediction upon all assembled, and soon the friends quietly withdrew.  It was the most spiritual meeting.  Gathered under one roof were people of different nations and various nationalities, the young and old, all meeting in love and fellowship, and in devotion to the Servant of God in this day.
...
Tuesday evening, the farewell meeting of the friends was held at the home of Mrs Goodall in Oakland.  This was another especially memorable occasion.  All realized that at this meeting would be given final words of exhortation and farewell.  There was a reverent hush as 'Abdu'l-Bahá told of Bahá'u'lláh and of the two years He passed in solitude.  At the close of this narrative, 'Abdu'l-Bahá arose, and, in no uncertain terms, declared himself to be the Centre of the Covenant; and exhorted all believers to firmness, calling upon them to spread the message of the Kingdom both by deed and word.  In farewell, he took each one by the hand, giving to each the Greatest Name.
...
From the University at Berkeley many of
page 13
the East Indian students came to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá and to them and to the Japanese friends he showed great favour.  It was most interesting and gratifying to witness the beautiful spirit of love and kindness in the friends who gathered to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá expressed himself much pleased with San Francisco and greatly enjoyed his visits to Golden Gate Park.  He took especial interest in the flowers and would often leave the automobile for a walk along the shore of some one of the small lakes.  But even on the drives and during the walks he dispensed blessing-giving many wonderful lessons to those whose great privilege it was to be with him at those times.
...


III:13, 4 November 1912.
page 14
'Abdu'l-Bahá at the grave of Thornton Chase
Los Angeles, California, 19 October 1912
'Abdu'l-Bahá, in speaking of Mr Chase told the friends in San Francisco and Los Angeles to annually visit the grave of Mr Chase, to pray and have a meeting there and detail his earnest endeavours, service and great love for the Cause.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said that Mr Chase's station was not known while he was alive but in the future years it will be known.  Among the friends are many whose stations are not known while alive, but after their death, in the course of time their station becomes manifest.  Annually the friends will visit the grave of Mr Chase on the day 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited it.
Upon our arrival in San Francisco, 4 October 1912, when one of the Bahá'ís gave the news of the departure of Mr Chase, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "This revered personage was the first Bahá'í in America.  He served the Cause faithfully and his services will ever be remembered throughout future ages and cycles.  He has written many books in this Cause and they will be studied carefully by the coming generations.  He travelled once to 'Akká and there we associated with each other for several days.  Indeed he became free from the troubles of this world.  No matter how long he might have remained here, he would have met nothing else but trouble.  The purpose of life is to get certain results; that is, the life of man must bring forth certain fruitage.  It does not depend upon the length of life.  As soon as the life is crowned with fruition then it is completed, although that person may have had a short life.  There are certain trees which come to fruition very quickly, but there are other trees which attain to fruition very late; the aim is fruit.  If the tree brings forth its fruit young, its life is short; it is praiseworthy.  How regretful it is that a man may live a long life and yet his life may not be crowned with success, like unto the cypress tree which does not give any fruitage.  Praise be to God! the tree of Mr Chase's life brought forth fruit.  It gave complete fruit, therefore he is free.  He attained to eternal rest.  He is now in the Presence of Bahá'u'lláh.  His Holiness Jesus Christ lived only thirty-three years, but the world is filled with the fruits of his life.  Others have lived a hundred years, with no result and no fruitage from their lives.  There was a rabbi in Tiberius who lived 120 years, but the tree of his life was fruitless.  He had great enmity against Jesus Christ.  He often used to argue:  'The ephemeral life is subject to many trials and vicissitudes; there is no enjoyment in it.'  The life of Mr Chase was spiritual in character; his services will ever he remembered and he has already attained to the desire of his heart."
On Saturday, 19 October, at 1 p.m., 'Abdu'l-Bahá and about twenty-five Bahá'ís of Los
page 15
Angeles arrived at the cemetery Inglewood.  The place is charming, the meadows are green and there are many trees.  'Abdu'l-Bahá silently walked ahead of the friends and he was followed reverently by them.  There are many flower beds and the fragrance thereof reached the nostrils.  Most of the friends carried bouquets of flowers in their hands.  After arriving at the grave, 'Abdu'l-Bahá scattered his flowers and then one after another of the friends gave him their bouquets and he divided them and scattered them over the grave.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá standing at the head of the grave and raising his hands toward heaven, uttered the following prayer:
Prayer
O my God!  O my God!  Verily, this is a servant of Thine, who did believe on Thee and in Thy signs; verily he hearkened to Thy summons, turned to Thy Kingdom, humbled himself at Thy holy threshold, was possessed of a contrite heart, arose to serve Thy cause, to spread Thy fragrances, to promote Thy word, and to expound Thy wisdom.
Verily he guided the people to Thine ancient pathway, and led them to Thy way of rectitude.  Verily he held the chalice of guidance in his right hand and gave unto those athirst to drink of the cup of favour.  He presented himself at Thy lofty threshold, where he laid his brow on the fragrant soil of Thy garden and circumambulated Thy all-glorious and sublime abode, the traces of which are wide-spread and the fragrances of whose loyalty are sensed everywhere.  Later he returned to these vast and extensive countries and proclaimed Thy Name amongst the people, until his respiration ceased and his outward sensation was suspended, returning to Thee with a heart throbbing with Thy love and with an eye opened to Thy direction.
O Lord!  O Lord!  Submerge him in the ocean of Thy glory.  O Lord!  O Lord!  Usher him into Thy delectable garden.  O Lord!  O Lord!  Usher him into Thy lofty paradise and cause him to be present in Thy meeting of transfiguration.  O Lord!  Submerge him in the ocean of Thy lights.
Verily, Thou art the Clement!  Verily, Thou are the Merciful, the Precious, the Omnipotent!
Then after the prayer he spoke as follows:
"Mr Chase was of the blessed souls.  The best time of his life was spent in the path of God.  He had no other aim except the good pleasure of the Lord and no other desire except the attainment to the Kingdom of God.  During his lifetime he bore many trials and vicissitudes, but he was very patient and longsuffering.  He had a heart most illuminated, a spirit most rejoiced; his hope was to serve the world of humanity; during the days of his life he strove as much as he could-he never failed-until he witnessed the lights of the Kingdom of Abhá, and he was guided by the lights of Guidance.  He summoned the people to the religion of God; he suffered them to enter into the Kingdom of God; he wrote books and epistles regarding the proofs and evidences of the Manifestations of Bahá'u'lláh.  In reality he has left behind him certain signs which will never be forgotten throughout ages and cycles.  In reality this personage was worthy of respect.  This personage is worthy of having the friends visit his grave.  The traces of this personage will ever shine.  This is a personage who will not be forgotten.  For the present his worth is not known but in the future it will be inestimably dear.  His sun will ever be shining, his stars will ever bestow the light.  The people will honour this grave.  Therefore, the friends of God must visit this grave and on my behalf bring flowers and seek the sublimity of the spiritual station for him and have the utmost consideration for the members of his family.  This personage will not be forgotten."
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb


III:13, 4 November 1912.
page 15
Tribute to Thornton Chase from Brooklyn, N.Y.
...
page 16
[Extract]
...
The readings included the Tablet written by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in memory of another brother:
"O Beloved!  O Faithful Brother!  Where is thy beautiful face?  Where is thy eloquent speech?  Where is thy serene brow?  Where is thy radiant beauty?  Where is thy flame enkindled by the Fire of the Love of God?  Where is thy attraction to the Perfumes of God?  Where is thy discourse in praise of God?  Where is thy determination to serve in the Cause of God?  Where are thy beautiful eyes?  Where are thy smiling lips?  Where is thy noble countenance?  Where is thy graceful form?  Thou hast abandoned the human world and ascended to the Kingdom.  Thou hast attained to the Divine Grace.  Thou hast reached the Threshold of the Lord of the Celestial Kingdom.  Thou hast abandoned the bodily lamp, the mortal garment, the earthly elements and the life of this world.  Thou hast kindled thy flame in the Lamp of the Supreme Concourse and thou hast entered the Paradise of Abhá.  Thou hast taken shelter in the shadow of the Tree of Life and attained the Meeting with God in the Abode of Paradise.  Thou wert a divine bird which has forsaken its mortal nest.  Thou hast flown to the Garden of the Divine Kingdom and attained thy brilliant station.  Thou hast already sung the verses of the Mercy of the Lord the Clement.  Thou art a grateful servant, and thou hast entered into the joy of thy Lord.  Verily thy Lord hath chosen thee for His Love;-hath guided thee to the side of His Holiness, caused thee to enter into the Garden of His Nearness and permitted thee to behold His Beauty.  Thou hast laid hold of Eternal Life and attained to Everlasting Well-Being,-to the Good-Pleasure of God,-to His Delight-and His All-Sufficient Favour.  Thou hast become a star in the Highest Horizon, a light among the Angels of Heaven, and a living soul in the Exalted World, resting upon the Throne of Immortality.  I ask God to enable thee to attain to His Nearness and His Union;-to rejoice thee by His Presence;-to increase thy brightness and thy beauty;-to grant thee honour and glory.  We remember thee continually and never forget thee.  We pray for thee night and day.  We see thee in the Supreme Horizon of Abhá!
"O Beloved!  O Faithful Brother!"
Howard MacNutt


III:14, 23 November 1912
page 3
The "Day of God"
Selections from The Bahá'í Proofs, by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl Gulpáygán.
In the Name of God, the Most Holy Beauty of Abhá!
O ye people!  Know-may God the Exalted assist ye through a spirit sent from Him!-Verily, when ye consider carefully the announcements in the Heavenly Books and perceive the glad tidings in the Holy, Divine Writings, ye will find they agree in promising the coming of the "Day of God" and foreshadowing the arrival of the "Hour" wherein the Face of God will be manifested, the regions of heaven and earth will be illuminated by His coming, all former things will be changed by His rising, and every sorrow effaced.  The essence of all that is recorded concerning these glad tidings is this, that when oppression and tyranny prevail throughout the world; when distress and tribulations are intensified among the nations; when divergencies of religions and creeds become grave and widespread, and the heaven of worship of the Merciful God is riven and overthrown; when the greed of souls grows fierce to violate men and property; when terrors and adversities prevail; at that time the Divine Herald will arise, the Holy Heavenly Spirit will descend, announcing the coming of the Manifestation of the promised Lord and proclaiming the approach of the dawn of the Orb of His Glorious Beauty.  Then will the Path be made plain, hearts brought nigh unto God, breasts healed, griefs dispelled and tears wiped away.  Then will the glorious Lord arise and utter a Call which shall shake the pillars of this lofty edifice.  He will cry out in a voice which shall fill the expanse of the world and summon all the nations of the earth, both East and West, to God, The Mighty, The Glorious!  Then will He institute for them new laws, and trace out for them a plain, direct path.
And after the setting of the Sun of His Beauty, the breeze of His Presence being hushed, the Glorious "Branch" extended from the Tree of His Essence will arise; the dawning Moon will shine from the horizon of the Heaven of His Bounty, diffusing the lights of His Religion, establishing the Temple of His Worship and sitting upon the Throne of His Glory.  His holy Word will penetrate all regions until the saying be fulfilled, "The earth will be illuminated with the Light of its Lord, in the day of judgement."
With the rising of such Divine Souls and the shining forth of such Heavenly Lights, the clouds of fictitious beliefs will be dispersed and the pearls of the Realities of Knowledge will become manifest; religious divergences will be removed and nations will be united in worshipping the Merciful One.  So the worship of Satan shall pass away.  In that Day, God will "make all things new".  Everywhere affairs will change, until all parts of the earth shall rejoice.  Enlightenment, learning, arts and trades will become universal among mankind.  The remote ones of the world will be brought nigh; nations and peoples will be harmonized; the rancours and animosities hidden in breasts shall be removed, and love, affection, attraction and brotherhood become general throughout the world.  Then souls will be cheered by the wafting of the fragrances of joy, and hearts will rejoice at the blowing of the Breezes of Gladness.  The Lord will destroy all vestiges of tyranny, oppression and rebellion through His Power, and will propagate evidences of Equity, Justice and Charity.
He will judge between nations, render justice between people, correct souls and unite hearts.  Then the time of spoiling will pass away, and the days of warring cease; the swords will be made into ploughshares, the spears into pruning-hooks; no nation will raise sword against another, and no "multitudes will wage wars together".
In a word:  the Fragrances of Resurrection will stir and the Breezes of Life will blow; the "dead" will be quickened, the darkness of former things be dispelled, and the lights of ideal virtues will shine; the emblems of true humanity will be raised in all places,
page4
and the Lord of Heaven and Earth will illumine all regions, both East and West.
The Báb-The Gate
Then know, O ye people, that in the year AD 1844, the Star of Guidance dawned, the Planet of Purity shone forth, the Fountains of Knowledge gushed out in one of the best lands of the Orient, when the Tree of Grace was ignited in the city of Shíráz, the chief town of the province of Fárs, Persia.  The Most Great Báb (Gate) arose, preaching to the multitudes and peoples, heralding the expiration of the gloomy night, foreshadowing and clearly declaring the coming of the great and dreadful "Day of God".  He raised this call betwixt the heaven and earth:  "Rejoice!  Rejoice!  The Morn of Guidance hath indeed appeared, the gloomy night hath cleared away, and the Dawning of the Beauty of God, Abhá is at hand.  The springtime of the Return of the Realities of Regeneration path come!"  All regions trembled with this most sweet call and the Resurrection appeared through the supreme Message.  The storms of oppression blew and the whirlwinds of rancour stirred in the breasts of religious doctors.  Then the brilliant Flame was extinguished, the spiritual Fragrance ceased and the Beauty of the Merciful One was martyred in the city of Tabríz, the chief town of Ádhirbáyján, under the sentence of a satanic and impious one.  Calamities and afflictions appeared, animosity and malice showed forth and the dark clouds of discord became violent; until the appointed time came and the Signs of the arrival of the "Day of God" were manifest in all directions.
Bahá'u'lláh-The Glory of God
Then dawned the Sun of the Beauty of the Promised One; then arose and beamed the Orb of the Face of the Adored One.  The Hour arrived, the Resurrection came, the Trumpet sounded and the dawn of the Manifestation shone forth.  Bahá'u'lláh arose; the Beauty of the Supreme God appeared and called out with a voice that filled all regions, causing the "seven strata of the earth" to tremble.
__________
Now the promised God hath indeed come, the Beauty of the Adored One hath appeared, the appointed "Day of God" hath dawned and his irrefutable and glorious Command hath arisen.  The Lord hath descended in the shadow of clouds; the earth is shining with the Light of the Face of its Lord, the Bestower; the Bridge is extended, the Book is appointed, the curtain is lifted and the veil is removed.  Showers of Verses have fallen, branches of Knowledge have put forth leaves and become flourishing in all directions.  The dead have arisen and the lifeless are resurrected.  The rivers of Knowledge and enlightenment have flowed from his Supreme Pen and He hath broken the seal of the "Sealed Wine" with his Generous Finger.  He hath explained in His Holy Tablets the realities of the Words of the Prophets, and hath disclosed in His precious Writings the meanings of the symbols of the Elect, until all the seals of the Prophets have been opened and the aims of the Messengers become unveiled to the possessors of pure hearts.  He instituted new laws which are destined to unite all nations and multitudes; issued a glorious Command which will bring together all religions and creeds, enjoined His Saints to love all nations and exhorted them to serve all the people of the world.  He enacted for them devotional ordinances, such as fasting, prayer, pilgrimage, almsgiving and other rites and ceremonies.  He forbade crimes and sins, such as murder, adultery, theft, backbiting, lying, calumny and other iniquities and offences.  He commanded them to submit to the laws of government, urged them to obey kings and princes and to respect those who are good among the learned men and doctors.  He exhorted them to universally spread enlightenment, to educate their children of both sexes and absolutely prohibited them from that which may create oppression and hatred in the world.  He forbade them from cursing, execration, insult, strife, conflict and all that is calculated to separate hearts or perturb souls.  He even forbade them from carrying arms without the permission of rulers, and from everything that may cause confusion.
During His last days He wrote the Kitáb-i-'Ahd (The Book of the Covenant, Testament or Will) with His blessed fingers in which He clearly stated and appointed the Centre of the Covenant, directing peoples to the Orb of the Universe.  In this Book He again exhorted His friends and followers to show forth good characteristics and noble attributes, so that there may appear pure and chaste souls among His believers; shining and beaming stars in the heaven of His Cause.
Likewise, the torrent of His Verses and the shower of His Graces abundantly poured
page 5
down, until the time of Disappearance drew nigh, and the Sun of Truth was concealed in the veil of Absence.  The Lord ascended to the Supreme Court of His Might, and His blessed Identity was hidden in His Invisible, Furthermost Essence.  This calamitous event and lamentable disaster happened in the month Dhi'l-Qa'dih, AH 1309, which corresponds to the month of May, AD 1892.
'Abdu'l-Bahá-The Servant of God and the Centre of His Covenant
When the Sun of Guidance was set and the rustle of the Sadratu'l-Muntahá1 hushed, then the Orb of the Covenant dawned and the Moon of the Testament appeared with the utmost brilliancy and effulgence.  The glorious "Branch extended from the Ancient Root" arose to promote the Word of the King of the Day of judgement, and now He is crying and heralding throughout all regions:  "The Judgement of God hath come; respond ye, respond ye unto the Call of God!  Hearken ye, hearken ye, to the Melodies of God!  Inhale ye the Fragrances of God!  Be illumined, be illumined with the lights of the Face of Bahá'u'lláh!  The promises of the Prophets have already been fulfilled, the prophecies and the Messengers realized; the Day of Judgement hath come, and mankind hath stood before the Lord of the creatures!"


III:14, 23 November 1912
page 5
Supplication revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
O God!  Assist me with the hosts of the Supreme Concourse and make me firm and steadfast in the Covenant and Testament.  I am weak in the Covenant and Testament; confer upon me strength.  I am poor; bestow upon me wealth from the treasures of the Kingdom.  I am ignorant; open before my face the doors of knowledge:  I am dead; breathe into me the Breath of Life.  I am dumb; grant me an eloquent tongue, so that with a fluent expression I may raise the call of Thy Kingdom and quicken all of them in firmness to the Covenant.  Thou art the Generous, the Giver and the Mighty!


III:14, 23 November 1912
page 5
The "Centre of the Covenant"
Selections from The Bahá'í Proofs, by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl.
In the Name of God, the Most Holy Beauty of Abhá!
To the people of Faith, the clear appointment of the Centre of the Cause, after the Departure [death] of the Manifestation [Bahá'u'lláh], is considered the most important point in religious matters, as it is the greatest channel which connects the servants of God with Holy Divine Truth.  They are all sure and convinced that the Centre of the Covenant is no other than His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá; for, apart from the Divine signs that were manifest in Him, Bahá'u'lláh clearly and implicitly, verbally and in writing, directed all of His servants to the blessed Person of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and, under all circumstances, clearly showed that He was far distinguished above others, in order that all the servants should look unto Him alone, and follow His Commands.  For it is only through His explanation and decision that all discord is removed.  Consequently the Bahá'ís appreciate the determining of the "Appointed Centre" as the greatest of the Divine Providences, and account His blessed Being as an impregnable fortress which protects the Divine Religion from the doubts of the sceptic and fanciful imaginations of men.
But notwithstanding all this, as Bahá'u'lláh foresaw, that when His Beauty of Oneness was concealed under the veils of disappearance, the people of desire, through jealousy, would hold to groundless doubts and suspicions and disregard the prohibition to interpret the Book.  He, therefore, prior to His Departure, revealed the blessed Kitáb-i-'Ahd [Book of the Covenant, the Will of Bahá'u'lláh].  This He wrote, and sealed it with His own blessed Hand and Seal, in order that the darkness of discord might not again obscure the brilliant Horizon of the Cause of God, and the calamities and disasters which afflicted other religions might not overtake this Faith.  In this Book (His Covenant) He clearly indicated that the purpose of the "Branch extended from the Ancient Root", revealed in the blessed Verse of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, was the Centre of the Circle of Names, the Exalted Branch of the Blessed Tree of Abhá, His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Then He, for the second time, enjoined, through an unchangeable and irrefutable command, all His "branches", "twigs" (relatives), and the Bahá'ís without exception, to look unto that Dawning-place of Divine Light, and to know Him as the Source and Origin of the commands and prohibitions of the Heavenly Religion.  He
page 6
desired, by this clear elucidation, to counteract the imaginations of the ignorant, extinguish the world-consuming flame of jealousy and hatred of the people of error, and guard the Divine Religion from divisions and sects which are, according to the judgement of common sense and the clear texts of the Holy Tablets of God, the most deplorable for religion and humanity.  By this He sought to preserve the Divine Word from human doubts, suspicions and artifices.
__________
But alas!  All these clear texts of God, commanding people to turn to the Day-spring of the Light of the Covenant, did not check the evil thoughts of the people of discord; and His repeated exhortations and advices did not soften the hard hearts of the men of hostility, nor prevent them from ruinous discords and divisions.  For when, in May, AD 1892 (Dhi'l-Qa'dih, AH 1309), Bahá'u'lláh ascended to His Most Holy Station, and nine days after His Departure, the Book of the Covenant of God was chanted in the Holy Tomb in the assembly of believers, the gloom of animosity and disappointment became instantly manifest upon the faces of those who had groundless pride and desire for leadership, and who sought to raise discord and contradiction.  On the other hand, cheerfulness and joy were manifest in the shining faces of those who had no desire but that of seeking the Truth and telling the Truth.  Some were seated upon the right hand of certainty, firmness and steadfastness in the solid Covenant of God, and some stood upon the left hand of unhappiness, in their impossible desire and erroneous thoughts.  The former became distinguished for their firmness and inflexibility; noted for the effectiveness of their word, their good name and success in assisting the Cause, while the others were distinguished by their instability, degradation and shame.  From that day, the thorn of violating the Covenant of God grew in the Garden of the Bahá'í community and the signs of senseless hatred and hostility proceeded from a limited number of persons who are known as the "náqidín" ["nakazeen"] (violators of the Covenant).
Although these people who violated the Covenant received, during the life of Bahá'u'lláh and after His Departure, every kindness and favour from His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who considered their welfare and prosperity before His own and that of the faithful believers, yet, on account of jealousy and selfishness, they violated the Cause of God.  Thus came to pass that which was prophesied by the Prophets-especially Christ-concerning the people of the right hand and the people of the left hand; and each will receive the reward of his deeds according to the justice of God.  Two important points increased the flame of the fire of jealousy in the hearts of these náqidín, whose number does not exceed thirty.  One was that the Bahá'ís of all countries refused to accept the seditious books and pamphlets forwarded to them by the náqidín.  According to the command of Bahá'u'lláh, they unanimously determined not to pay any attention to these intrigues and temptations, but took shelter, with the utmost union and harmony, under the banner of the Centre of the Covenant.  Another point was that during a short space of time the Cause of God became far more widely spread than before, through the fluent pen and brilliant explanations of 'Abdu'l-Bahá; so the number of the Bahá'ís became enormously multiplied since the Departure of Bahá'u'lláh.  The fame of the Dawning-Place of the Light of the Covenant spread throughout all religions, and His Holy Tablets became scattered as rose-petals throughout all countries.  His Great Name has filled the world with awe and the renown of His glorious deeds has reached all in the east and west.


III:14, 23 November 1912
page 9
"The Centre of the Covenant"
As the twenty-sixth of November is known among the Bahá'ís as the "Feast of the Appointment of the Centre of the Covenant", the Star of the West devotes this issue to a presentation of the important question of the Centre of the Covenant.
During 'Abdu'l-Bahá's sojourn in America, he awakened the friends to a realization of the greatness of this matter and the necessity of understanding it and turning to the appointed Centre and remaining firm therein, saying:
"Today, the most important affair is firmness in the Covenant, because firmness in the Covenant wards off differences.
"In former cycles no distinct Covenant was made in writing by the Supreme Pen; no distinct personage was appointed to be the Standard differentiating falsehood from truth, so that whatsoever he said was to stand as truth and that which he repudiated was to be known as falsehood.  At most, His Holiness Jesus Christ gave only an intimation, a symbol, and that was but an indication of the solidity of Peter's faith.  When he mentioned his faith, His Holiness said, 'Thou art Peter'-which means rock-'and upon this rock will I build my church.'  This was a sanction of Peter's faith; it was not indicative of his (Peter) being the expounder of the Book, but was a confirmation of Peter's faith.
"But in this Dispensation of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) among its distinctions is that He did not leave people in perplexity.  He entered into a Covenant and Testament with the people.  He appointed a Centre of the Covenant.  He wrote with His own pen and revealed it in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Book of Laws, and Kitáb-i-'Ahd, the Book of the Covenant, appointing him ('Abdu'l-Bahá) the Expounder of the Book.  You must ask him ('Abdu'l-Bahá) regarding the meanings of the texts of the verses.  Whatsoever he says is correct.  Outside of this, in numerous Tablets He (Bahá'u'lláh) has explicitly recorded it, with clear, sufficient, valid and forceful statements.  In the Tablet of The Branch He explicitly states:  "Whatsoever The Branch says is right, or correct; and every person must obey The Branch with his life, with his heart, with his tongue.  Without his will, not a word shall anyone utter."  This is an explicit text of the Blessed Beauty.  So there is no excuse left for anybody.  No soul shall, of himself, speak anything:1  Whatsoever his ('Abdu'l-Bahá's) tongue utters, whatsoever his pen records, that is correct; according to the explicit text of Bahá'u'lláh in the Tablet of the Branch.
"His Holiness Abraham covenanted with regard to Moses.  His Holiness Moses was the Promised One of Abraham, and He, Moses, covenanted with regard to His Holiness Christ, saying that Christ was the Promised One.  His Holiness Christ covenanted with regard to His Holiness 'The Paraclete', which means His Holiness Muhammad.  His Holiness Muhammad covenanted as regards The Báb, whom He called, 'My Promised One', His Holiness The Báb, in all His books, in all His epistles, explicitly covenanted with regard to
page 10
the Blessed Beauty, Bahá'u'lláh, that Bahá'u'lláh was the Promised One of His Holiness the Báb.  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh covenanted, not that I ('Abdu'l-Bahá) am the Promised One, but that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the Expounder of the Book and the Centre of His Covenant, and that the Promised One of Bahá'u'lláh will appear after one thousand or thousands of years.  This is the Covenant which Bahá'u'lláh made.  If a person shall deviate, he is not acceptable at the Threshold of Bahá'u'lláh.  In case of difference, 'Abdu'l-Bahá must be consulted.  They must revolve around his good pleasure.  After 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whenever the Universal House of Justice is organized it will ward of differences.
"Now I pray for you that God may aid you, may confirm you, may appoint you for His service; that He may suffer you to be as radiant candles; that He may accept you in His Kingdom; that He may make you the cause of the spread of the light of Bahá'u'lláh in these countries, and that the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh may be spread broadcast.
"I pray for you, and I am pleased with all of you, each one, one by one; and I pray that God may aid and confirm you. ...  At present, farewell to you!"  The Editors.


III:14, 23 November 1912.
page 12
In praise of "The Greatest Branch"
Written by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, 24 November, and read in Washington, D.C., 26 November 1902, at the celebration of the anniversary of the Feast of the Appointment of The Centre of the Covenant.
In the Name of God, the Most Holy, the Abhá!
O ye beloved of God and His friends!  Praise and glorification behove the Holy Court of the True One, the Exalted, who has, in this great age and wonderful cycle, primarily caused the Shining Star of the Blessed Being of the First Point (The Báb) to appear like unto the beaming orb of the morn from the horizon of the world; has rejoiced and revived the creatures through the glad tidings of the advent of the New Day, and the Manifestation of the Glorious Lord.  Praise be to God!  Who subsequently caused the Sun of the Most Holy Beauty of Abhá (Exalted is His Supreme Name!) to dawn forth in the midst of the heaven of power and grandeur.  After the disappearance of these two Lights a third Splendour became manifest from the Sinai of Epiphany, and the Orb of the Covenant shone forth from the firmament of beatitude, the apex of exaltation and glory, with the most marvellous effulgence.  Through these three Shining Lights, the darkness of the nations, superstitions, will be dispelled, the dust of discord of the people will be subsided by the showers of mercy descending
page 13
from the clouds of Divine Providence; the banner of peace will be hoisted; the mortal world will be clothed in the excellent robe of ideal humanity; the bond of perfect love will be strengthened among contradictory nations and repugnant peoples; and the world, east and west, will become the Paradise of Abhá and as a garden bringing forth fruits of Divine Grace.  We, therefore, praise Him in such glorification from which the lights of sincerity may gleam forth and scintillate throughout ages and epochs; and we thank Him in such sanctification from which the pure fragrances of meekness and humbleness will be diffused and exhaled with the duration of nights and days!
O ye beloved of God and His friends!  This Great Day has been assigned to the Blessed Name of the Lord of the world, the Sign of Pre-existence, the standard of Divine victory among nations, the Light of the heaven and the earth, the Point around which the Supreme Concourse revolves, in the kingdom of Names-His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá (May the life of the creatures be a sacrifice to Him!)!  Ye are all attracted to His Love, united in His servitude, overshadowed under His banner, and are assembled together in this excellent meeting, with rejoiced hearts and shining faces, speaking the praise of the Most Holy Beauty of Abhá, and uttering the glorification of the Centre of His Covenant, His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
How can this servant duly praise and thank God, the Exalted, who hath enabled him to make his tongue fluent in glorifying the Centre of the Covenant in this wonderful meeting, in the presence of His chosen ones and friends?  Again I praise Him for this wondrous confirmation and glorious success.  Verily, He is the Mighty, the Praiseworthy!
How can this weak one befittingly glorify and sanctify a Most Holy Personage with whose Name all the ancient and heavenly Books are adorned and who has been announced and prophesied by the tongue of the prophets and chosen ones, from the beginning to the end?  Every prophetic page seems like unto a heaven, studded with the beaming stars and shining pearls of the praises of the Orb of the Universe; or like unto a rose-garden decked and embellished by the verdant leaves and fragrant flowers of the glorification of the Centre of the Covenant.  Again we praise Him with such words whereby hearts are cheered and breasts are dilated, and we thank Him in such hymns whereby the light of bliss and beatitude shine forth from the horizon of the hearts!
O ye beloved of God and His friends!  Consider how in the second Psalm David (Peace be upon him!) has announced the appearance of the Son of God in dominion and judgement, and how he hath warned the kings and judges of the earth to serve Him!  Consider in the fourth chapter of Isaiah how that great prophet has foretold the appearance of the Exalted Branch of the Lord in the utmost beauty and glory, and how God hath appointed Him a place of refuge for the saved ones.  Consider how Isaiah has spoken in the eleventh chapter of his book that the lofty Branch of the Blessed Tree shall appear from the root of David, and shall grow out of the Holy Lands; how the spirit of supremacy and power, of counsel and Divine wisdom shall rest upon Him; the lights of glory and divine grandeur shall beam forth from His Shining Face; how He shall hoist the pavilion of universal Peace and Divine equity, and assemble all the various and contradictory nations, including weak and strong, high and low, under the shadow of union and harmony.
Reflect upon the 26th verse of the 30th chapter of the book of Isaiah, how God the Almighty, has clearly spoken that in the day when Israel shall be saved, and the sins and errors of the heirs of Abraham effaced, the Shining Moon of the Centre of the Covenant shall gleam forth in the utmost Glory and Splendour, and the beaming lights scintillating from the brilliant Face of that dawning-place of Supremacy and Lordship shall be like unto the Sun of Truth!  Consider how, in the first few verses of the 42nd chapter of Isaiah, it is clearly shown that in the last day, God, the Exalted, shall elect the Bearer of the Banner of His servitude, confer upon Him the Holy Spirit of His Divinity, unfurl the standard of the Supreme Covenant and Testament in His Name, and shall protect Him, with His Strong Hand, from the deceit of the violators and the devices of the people of rancour; that Servant of the Lord shall become a Banner for the people's salvation and a Light for hearts and souls; shall restore the blind and deliver the captives; direct those who sit in darkness unto light; place all the creatures under the standard of universal peace, security and absolute emancipation, and make the tongues of all in the east and west fluent in new hymns and wonderful glorifications!
Likewise, consider the 7th chapter of Dan-
page 14
iel.  First, in the 9th and l0th verses, God hath announced the Manifestation of the Great Lord, the Ancient King, the Most Holy Beauty of Abhá (Glorified is His Supreme Name!) and hath spoken of the founding of the sound religion and manifest law and of the rise of the hosts of chosen ones and holy ones.
Then He hath said in the 13th and 14th verses of the same chapter that the Excellent Branch shall be extended from that Ancient Root, and the Spirit of God descended from Heaven shall shine forth from His Beaming Face, and Glory and Kingdom shall be conferred upon Him from God; His command shall influence all nations and multitudes, and His Kingdom shall continue forever.
Likewise, consider the 8th and 9th verses of the 3rd chapter of Zechariah, where the great prophet has clearly prophesied that in the day of the Most Great Manifestation, the dawning of the Sun of the Ancient Beauty, God, the Exalted, shall bring about the removal of the nations' iniquity and the elimination of the people's calamities by the rise of that Excellent Branch extended from the Pre-existent Root; and He hath made the restoration of the Holy Lands, the covenanted country of the prophets and chosen ones, dependent upon the power of that Blessed Being.
Likewise, in the 12th and 13th verses of the 6th chapter of the same book, God, the Exalted, hath explicitly promised Zechariah that in the Day of the Lord's Manifestation the Blessed Branch shall grow up out of the Pure Tree of Divinity, shall bear the Glory of the Lord, shall sit and rule upon His Throne, and shall build the Temple of the Divine worship; the banner of universal peace and eternal beatitude shall be hoisted among all mankind through the council of peace held between the Branch and the Lord.
Consider the New Testament:  in every instant in which His Holiness, Christ (Glory be to Him!) and His eminent disciples have announced the coming of the Kingdom of God, they have spoken of the rising of the Excellent Branch and of the dawning of the Orb of the Covenant.  Especially His Holiness, John, has adorned all the prophecies of his Book of Revelation with this Glorious Name, and has clearly stated the appearance of the Covenant of God in the Day of the Lord's Manifestation.  He has explicitly said that in that Great Day, the New Holy City shall be illuminated with lights shining from the Face of the Lord and His appointed Branch; the rivers of wonderful enlightenments, which would impart life to the people of the world and save nations, shall flow forth from the Throne of the Lord and that of the Centre of His Covenant.  Nay, rather, he hath elucidated that those written in the Book of Life of the Excellent Branch shall be saved, and those overshadowed:  under His Ancient Standard shall inherit everlasting glory.
To resume:  the tongues of all the prophets sung the praise of His Blessed Name, and the hearts of the chosen ones rejoiced at the announcement of His coming, until that Most Holy Being was born in the Day1 of the Manifestation of the "First Point" (Exalted is His Supreme Name!).  The birthday of the "Branch extended from the Ancient Root", coincided with the day of the appearance of the Lord's precursor, and the "Mystery of God" was realized by this coincidence.  In His childhood He was nurtured under the favours of the Most Holy Beauty of Abhá, until, at the age of nine, He escorted the Ancient Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) from Teheran to Baghdád.  He shared with the Beauty of Abhá in every calamity and affliction during their exile from Baghdád to Constantinople, Adrianople, and finally to 'Akká (the prison), and endured unbearable sufferings.  The Tongue of Grandeur was always uttering the greatness of His station, and appointed His Holiness, the Excellent Branch, to the position of the "Centre of the Covenant".  In a Tablet revealed by the Beauty of Abhá to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, while the latter was in Beirut, He said:  "We have appointed Thee a protection to all the creatures, a guardian to all in the Heaven and the earth, and a fortress to those who believe in God, the One, the Omniscient!"
O ye beloved of God!  How can I duly praise the Lord of mankind, the Centre of the Covenant (May the life of all the creatures be a sacrifice to Him!), and how can I explain the loftiness of His station!  For He is the One Whom all the Divine Manifestations have praised and extolled.
Let us now offer our humble efforts in praising and glorifying God, the Exalted, Who has honoured us by serving the Centre of His Covenant, hath made us know in His Name, and hath placed us under the shadow of His Glorious Banner.  We thank Him in such praises whereby the faces of the steadfast ones are illuminated!
Praise be to God, the King of the Heaven and the earth!
(Signed) Abu'l-Fadl


III:15, 12 December 1912
page 3
A glimpse of 'Abdu'l-Bahá at Green Acre
[Extract]
...
page 4
The day of his farewell address in Dublin, New Hampshire, the people were so moved that many eyes were wet with tears.  They could not bear to see him go away.  When some of the friends expressed their sorrow he said:  "The mature wisdom requires this.  I must go everywhere and raise the call of the Kingdom.  As the days of my life are limited in this world, I must perfect my services; I must go everywhere and raise the summons of the Kingdom!"  He uttered these words with a countenance shining with the splendour of God and with such spiritual condition that all wept like children.
He is indeed the Master!


III:16, 31 December 1912
page 2
With 'Abdu'l-Bahá on S.S. Celtic
5 December:  The wonderful farewell of the New York friends at the dock will ever be remembered.  (Midnight) The sea is smooth.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is very well.  He had dinner at ten in his cabin.
6 December:  The sea is as calm as a mirror.  The Master walked on deck for an hour and spoke of many of the friends.  In a Tablet revealed in his cabin he said:  "This is the Ark of Noah, its moving power is the Fire of the Love of God and its Captain is Bahá'u'lláh."  (11 p.m.) He spoke to us about the early life of Bahá'u'lláh.  Wonderful story.  He sent two boxes of roses to the captain and is feeding all the stewards on candy and fruit.  Lovely night.
7 December:  The weather is as balmy as spring; the sailors marvel at such weather at this time of the year.  Captain called on 'Abdu'l-Bahá and expressed pleasure in having him on the ship.  (6 p.m.) Sky clear.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said he would like to see a big storm.  He said:  "In future people will cross the Atlantic in airships; steamers will only carry freight."
8 December:  Cloudy, but sea calm.  Had an hour's talk with the Beloved.  He spoke of Columbus and the discovery of America, concluding:  "I want two souls like Columbus in America who may be filled with the love of Bahá'u'lláh and spread His Teachings.  Then you shall see the results.  Columbus discovered America; they must establish the oneness of the world of humanity."
9 December:  (10:30 a.m.) The sea is getting rough.  (5 p.m.) Storm.  Went on deck and saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá watching the storm.  He said:  "Look at that imperial wave, how it mounts high and devours the smaller waves!  It is a wonderful sight.  This is the best day.  I am enjoying it."
10 December:  The storm continues.
11 December:  The storm is at its height.
12 December:  The sea has calmed down.  We are all very happy because the trip is nearing its end.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is well.  (11 p.m.) Tonight the Master addressed the passengers of the first class.  More than sixty were present.  He spoke about his nine months in America.  They were all greatly impressed and came and expressed their pleasure.
December 13th:  Since three o'clock we occasionally see land.  (Later) We are now near the docks.  (11:30 p.m., Midland Adelphi Hotel, Liverpool) Here we are at last in the most beautiful hotel in the city.  When the steamer docked there were about twelve Bahá'ís waving their handkerchiefs and welcoming 'Abdu'l-Bahá to England.
Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab


III:16, 31 December 1912
page 3
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Green Acre
Charles Mason Remey
With the fulfilment of the Divine promises of the past in the coming of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh and the establishment of God's Kingdom upon earth, there have appeared countless signs in the realm of humanity indicative of this great day.  These, when viewed in the light of this new revelation, are seen to be as ways preparing people and making them ready to receive the Manifestation of God, to accept His teaching and to abide according to His laws.
One of the earliest of these signs was the so-called Millerite, or latterly known Adventist Movement which taught people that the coming of the Lord was very near at hand.  Following this were very many other movements in various parts of the world, all of which were forecasts of this great event to which the prophets of all ages testified "The coming of the Day of God", when the Covenant of God should be fulfilled and the Divine promise of "Peace on earth" would be realized by all mankind.
Most people recall the Congress of Religions held in connection with the Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893.  Before this gathering representatives of all the great world religions spoke, each expounding the philosophy of his own religious system.  The effect of this philosophic congress was that of broadening the public mind, and many people realized that the one spirit of Truth was at the root of each true religion.
Shortly after the Columbian Exposition, Miss Sarah J. Farmer, of Eliot, Maine, established the summer school at Green Acre, on the Piscataqua.  Her idea was to provide a platform open to all, from which each might proclaim his message, whatever it might be, the only restriction being that each speaker
page 4
should expound his theories in the spirit of toleration toward all holding views other than his own.
At Green Acre there gathered scholars and speakers from every nation, race and religion.  Thus began the work of trying to find a common ground upon which all people could meet in brotherhood.
In the abstract Green Acre has always stood for peace and harmony, despite that in the concrete she has harboured under her tent such a heterogeneous combination of creeds, philosophies and doctrines.
In the spring of the year the land is prepared to receive the new crop.  During the process of ploughing whatever is growing is sacrificed, uprooted and overturned in order to make ready the soil for the seed to be sown.  Such has been the work of each of these movements, which has prepared the souls of people for the Bahá'í Message of Peace and Brotherhood.  Each has been the direct cause of a general sacrifice, uprooting and overturning of the doctrines, ideas and thoughts imposed upon mankind from the people and thinkers of the past, and thus has humanity been prepared to receive the revealed Word of God which is the seed of the Kingdom.
In the days of Babel the people tried to make a way to heaven out of the material of this earth, and great confusion resulted.  Never has any organic or spiritual unity resulted from the coming together of people upon the basis of creeds, philosophies or doctrines.  Such theories, which come from the minds of men, are not spiritual truths, but are the products of human minds, therefore they form no foundation whatever for divinely spiritual realities.  When people deal with such unrealities, confusion always results, yet this very confusion creates spiritual hunger and thirst and causes people to earnestly seek God in spirit.
When the Bahá'í Message was given at Green Acre, some storm-tossed and seeking souls responded to the call and a small centre of the Faith was there established.  Each succeeding season has added to both the spiritual strength and material numbers of this group until this year these people of the Covenant had the blessed privilege of welcoming to their midst 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant.
'Abdu'l-Bahá remained in Green Acre one week.  His addresses and interviews were many.  The hearts of all who contacted with him were quickened with the joy and love of the Kingdom, and many souls were spiritually confirmed, realized his mission and received through him inspiration to follow in his path of service to humanity.
The people of the future will understand the spiritual importance of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's work at Green Acre.  One thought which he reiterated more than once was that now the people assembled at Green Acre should devote their time and attention only to the spiritual reality of religion.  Spiritual reality is spiritual life and light, while the creeds, philosophic systems and doctrines of the past ages blind people to the basic truth of all religions, which basic truth has again been given to the world through the inspired revealers of the Bahá'í Faith.
It was quite evident to all that 'Abdu'l-Bahá enjoyed the spiritual atmosphere of the Green Acre people, for gathered there he found many responsive souls.  These friends are confident that 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit, which was indeed a spiritual benediction, is going to have a great and lasting effect upon their community, for now all wish to adhere only to the spiritual realities, freeing themselves from all else.  'Abdu'l-Bahá prophesied great things for the future of the work at Green Acre if the people adhered firmly to the spiritual reality of Truth.
The original Green Acre ideal had its mission to perform.  It gathered together people to receive the spiritual teachings of the Bahá'í Message.  That being accomplished, it has fulfilled its mission according to the lines prescribed and outlined by its founder.  Little did Miss Farmer and her friends realize, when they started this work, that the Covenant of God would be proclaimed there, and that the Centre of the Covenant would actually appear there and teach the people!
Now, through the bounty of God, a new and a great opportunity is offered to Green Acre, that of becoming a great centre for the study of the Covenant and the investigation of spiritual reality.  Green Acre has diligently sought the Truth from all sources, and she has found it, and now her work lies in nurturing souls in the pure reality of The Word of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá is supplicating God to make firm in the Covenant the friends in all parts of the world.  It, therefore, behoves every one to seek shelter in the Covenant, realizing that this is the day of the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.


III:16, 31 December 1912
page 9
A crumb from the table of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"The sword has been working over six thousand years and has become dull.  We must look about us for another sword to take its place.  The greatest sword is the tongue.  Its authority and sway is over hearts.  The sword of steel sheds blood; the sword of speech bestows life.  One takes away life; the other grants it.  This one is temporal in action and effect; the other is eternal.  This one is of metal; that one is the Love of God.  This is the difference between the two swords we possess.  Today the real sword is the tongue.  Too long it has remained in the scabbard, unused, rusty.  We must take it out and use it more and more every day."


III:17, 19 January 1913
page 2
'Abdu'l-Bahá's arrival in England
Isabel Fraser
'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived in Liverpool from New York on the White Star liner Celtic, 13 December.
The boat was late and it was about nine o'clock before it docked.  Miss Elizabeth Herrick, formerly of Liverpool, now of London, had gone up to Liverpool a day ahead to arrange for the addresses.  M. Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney had come from Paris to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá and a group from Manchester, Liverpool, and Leeds, in all about a dozen, watched the great liner come slowly up the stream, literally out of the dark night.  Suddenly we caught sight of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the ship's bow, and as she hove to he walked slowly down the long deck till he stood quite alone, in the very centre of the centre deck.  All eyes on the landing stage were at once riveted upon him as he peered over the ship's side into the rain and gloom of Liverpool.  The huge modern boat made a fitting frame for the Master-symbol, as it is of this outpouring of power, designed as it is to bring brothers into closer touch, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá the Centre of this dispensation, appeared standing in command.
To the little group on the landing stage it seemed ages before the first, second and third-class baggage was arranged in the customs, and the porters and reporters dashed aboard.
Finally we caught sight of the Well-Beloved's white turbaned head, and directly back of him, as they came slowly down the gang-plank, one of the Persians carried a tiny Japanese orange-tree from California.  Laden with fruit, it looked like an offering from the tropics as it swayed in the gusts of the broad Mersey.
He stayed two days in Liverpool, stopping at the Adelphi Hotel.  During that time he made two addresses, one to the Theosophical Society on Saturday night, 14 December, and one at Pembroke Chapel, a Baptist church, Sunday evening, 15 December.  He left for London the next morning.
Since leaving London a year ago, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has travelled far.  From here he went to Paris, and from thence travelled to Alexandria and Cairo.  Last April he visited the States, going as far west as San Francisco.  It was in this city that he made his famous address to the Jews, speaking on the relations between Judaism and Christianity, an address which is far-reaching not only from the Jewish but from the broad Christian standpoint.
On being asked what the Jewish attitude toward him was on that occasion, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Many of those present came up and shook me by the hand, and a certain Jew came to me as I was leaving the synagogue and said, 'I am ashamed to be prejudiced any longer.'  And, again, as I was walking one day in the street another Jew came to me and said, 'We were neglectful and heedless, and you enlivened us; we slept and you awoke us.  It behoves us to remain steadfast now and look to true knowledge, and forget our 2,000-year-old differences."'


III:17, 19 January 1913
page 3
The search for truth
Address of 'Abdu'l-Bahá before the Theosophical Society, Liverpool, England, Saturday night, 14 December 1912.1
Isabel Fraser
When I was in America, I had many opportunities of addressing the Theosophical Society there.  In every city I spoke once to them, and in some cities many times.  The Theosophists are very dear to me, for they have abandoned all prejudice.  They do not abide in the confines of dogma, but are seeking truth in a spirit of freedom.  All the religions of the world are submerged in prejudice.  A Jew is a Jew because his father was before him.  A Christian is such for the same reason, and it is the same with a Muslim.  All follow the precepts of their fathers, refusing to go forth and seek for themselves.
We both (Theosophists and Bahá'ís) have abandoned all dogmas in our earnest search for truth.  But look at the tribes and nations of the world-why are they seething with contention?  Because they are not seeking truth.  Truth is one.  It admits of absolutely no division and accepts neither limitations nor boundaries.  All dogmas differ, hence the nations are opposed.  The different dogmas make wars and strifes.  Behold the events of these days!  If it were not for these differences in religions there would be no wars.
We would not see what is now taking place in the Balkans if both sides were sincere seekers after truth.
Regard Persia:  in that land there were many tribes, governments and religions, but they cut down the barriers of dogmas, became followers of Bahá'u'lláh and are now as one.  Jews, Christians and Zoroastrians, et al., meeting together as we are doing here to seek for truth.  Truth is one, so they became united.
All the different religions of God that have risen on the face of the earth have one purpose:  to educate man and to inform him of the spiritual, the luminous, the divine, so that he may partake of heavenly spirit and find eternal life, show forth the virtues of mankind, and from a world of darkness enter a world of light.
There is no other reality of meaning to the different religions.  Their purpose is one, the teaching is one.
Man may be said to have three natures:  The first is sunk in darkness and here he is a prisoner to his desires for here he is co-possessor of the same qualities as the animals.  The second nature might be called his human nature and in this human nature is the home of the mind and the soul.  The third is his likeness to God and this he possesses in proportion to the divine qualities he imparts, the breeze of the holy spirit, pure spiritually, luminosity.
All the religions, all the prophets, all the great teachers had no other purpose than to raise mankind from the animal to the divine nature.  Their purpose was to free man and to make him an inhabiter of the realm of Reality.  For although the body of man is material, his reality is spiritual; although his body is darkness, his soul is light; although his body may seem to imprison him, his soul is essentially free.  To prove this freedom, the prophets of God have appeared and will continue to appear, for there is no end to divine teachings and no beginning.
The thoughtless say that the power of God is occasional; some will say that this material universe is hundreds of thousands of years old.  But the power of God is eternal and the creation of God is likewise eternal.  Divinity is dependent on creation.  Can you imagine a king without a people?  Can you imagine our sun without light and heat?  The sun to us means light and heat.  The king needs his kingdom and the qualities of God are eternal.  As long as God exists his creation will exist and the manifestations of God in the divine teachers have always existed as an energy of God and will always continue to exist.
The very greatest blessings of God are represented by these divine beings who come and who will continue to come forth to humanity for hundreds of thousands of years.  They represent the blessings of God and the blessings of God never cease.
Always hope that one day a Sun of Truth will rise and bring a Dawn whose light will destroy all the darkness of the human world, will unite hearts and make souls happy, do away with contention and establish universal Peace.  Then there will be no divisions.  All
page 4
will be united and live as one family under the flag of unity and love.  Then will mankind be inspired with a new progress and show forth diverse virtues.  A new spirit will be given to him and the new world will be invested with a divine beauty.  I hope we will always be expecting the appearance of such a One, for he will have education marked with a divine power.  Such a One will be superhuman in all conditions, able to subdue material limitations, able to free man from his bonds of country and unite east and west.  Such a One will make the Kingdom to appear, for such a One is, in his essence, superior to the laws governing human education.  In his essence he is a universal teacher and does not depend on human means for knowledge.  He does not need the light from a human lamp nor yet from an astral body.  His mission is to give light.
Such an One is a pure mirror in which the Light of Reality is reflected on the world of humanity.
We must be looking for such an One to the end that we may be attracted when he comes to go on wings flying to such a One, born with a new spirit each day to do new works.  Thus we will invite this greatest of divine blessings to appear.
Again let us look at Persia!  More than 20,000 there have sacrificed their lives-joyfully giving them in the path of God.  They were supplemented by hosts of Heavenly spirits so that they never tired of any kind of trouble; they never complained; nay, as trouble increased, their efforts increased and day by day they were enlightened with the Light of the Eternal.
My hope for you is that you may do all in your power to invite to this earth God's greatest blessing in your search for truth.


III:17, 19 January 1913
page 4
'Abdu'l-Bahá addresses Pembroke Chapel
Liverpool, England, Sunday, 15 December 1912.
Isabel Fraser
After a few appreciative words of welcome by the Rev. Donald Fraser, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the congregation at Pembroke chapel, at the evening service, 15 December.  Mr Fraser welcomed this herald of peace and expressed his deep appreciation and honour at having 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his church.
He made a remarkable picture as he stood in the pulpit, which at first he hesitated to ascend, saying that he did not like to be above the rest of the people.  But when it was pointed out to him that he would not be above some of them-the gallery-and that they could hear better, he complied.  He said in part:
"Tonight I am exceedingly happy to find myself in an assembly, the members of which are a recognized factor in philanthropy and well being.  Therefore, I supplicate at the throne of God that He may bestow divine confirmations upon you that at all times you may be the vehicle of divine mercy and the means of prosperity to the individual members of the world of humanity.
"Man should endeavour always to realize the Oneness of Humanity.  We are all the children of God; all created by God; all provided for by God and all under the protection of God.  God is kind to all His children.  Why should they wage war between themselves?  God is the Real Shepherd-all are His sheep.  There is no difference whatever among the members of the flock.  He educates all of us, is compassionate to all of us; protects all of us.  Ponder and you will understand that with the bounties of God there is no restraint.  His grace encompasses all mankind.  All live under His bounty.
"What benefit do we ever draw from separating ourselves one from another?  Why should we wrangle and battle to kill each other?  God is kind.  Why are we unkind?
"The first separating principle is religion.  Every sect and community has gathered around itself certain imitations of Reality in ceremonies and forms, and as these imitations differ, contentions follow.  Each division is encompassed with thick clouds through which the Sun of Reality cannot penetrate.  If these divisions should forget the differences in imitations and seek for the underlying Reality, all would be united and agreed and fellowship would be established between the organizations of mankind.
"As His Holiness Muhammad states, 'God is Love upon Love, with Love.'  Therefore it is evident that the foundation of Religion is Love and the fundamental purpose of religion is Unity.  The Religion of God is honour to humanity; why make it the cause of degra-
page 5
dation?  Why make it the cause of darkness and gloom?  Assuredly it is a thousand pities that the cause of such a glorious reality should become the cause of degradation and hatred.
"It was at a time of great darkness that His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh appeared in Persia, summoning all to love and friendship.  Now, in Persia, Jews, Christians, Zoroastrians and other contending religionists who heard the words of Bahá'u'lláh are living in the utmost state of love and reciprocity.
"This Cause is great and it was at great cost that Bahá'u'lláh strove to spread these principles in the world.  During his life he was imprisoned, his property was pillaged.  He was separated from his friends and 20,000 of his followers were martyred.  They sacrificed their lives in the glorious cause of doing away with imitations and limitations, to this end that Unity might be established among the children of men.
"Nations sometimes say, 'We wish to extend our boundaries!'  Consider with me for a moment, 'What is the earth?'  We live for a few years on its surface and then it becomes our eternal cemetery.  Millions of generations are buried there.  It is the universal graveyard of humanity.  Is it praise worthy to engage in war for a cemetery-to pillage the wealth of nations for an eternal graveyard?
"Praise God, this nation at this time is striving with all its energy for International Peace.  Rest not from your endeavours until international peace become established.  This is my request of you and my earnest hope for you is that you may always be protected."
After the hymn, "All People That on Earth Do Dwell," 'Abdu'l-Bahá pronounced the following benediction in Oriental fashion, with hands outstretched and upturned:  "O Thou most kind Lord, this reverent assembly is calling on Thy name.  These souls are seeking Thy good pleasure.  They are seeking the prosperity of the world of humanity.  O Lord, confer upon their souls life evermore.  O Lord, forgive their sins and keep them in Thy protecting shade in both worlds.  O Lord, confer upon them Thy great pleasure.  All are servants of international peace, all are servants of humanity.  Thou art The Merciful, The Generous, The Forgiver, The Almighty, The Praiseworthy!"
Afterward, in the vestry, 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote the following beautiful blessing for the Rev. Donald Fraser.  He inscribed it in Persian in the church book:  "O Thou Kind Almighty, confirm Thou this servant of Thine, Mr Fraser, in the service of Thy Kingdom.  Make him illumined; make him heavenly; make him spiritual; make him divine!  Thou art the Generous, the King!"


III:17, 19 January 1913
page 5
'Abdu'l-Bahá in London
Isabel Fraser
A remarkable cosmopolitan gathering filled the large hall at the Westminster Palace Hotel, Friday evening, 20 December, to listen to an address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá His topic was one that is agitating many of the thinking minds of today-the vast subject of Peace.
...
page 6
...
'Abdu'l-Bahá commenced speaking at once, Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb translating.  'Abdu'l-Bahá remained seated.  He spoke earnestly, jesticulating freely and one could almost follow his thoughts as the light and fire played over his countenance.  He spoke on the subject of Unity and Peace and expounded some of the teachings Bahá'u'lláh gives for the attainment of these two much-desired conditions of the world today.  He said:
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Scientists tell us that the world of matter is made up of constellation of molecules which hold it in its various forms; each molecule consists of a similar constellation of atoms which in turn recent discovery shows is made up of tiny worlds of electrons.  Thus we see that this law of affinity is the very basis of existence.
As in the material, so in the spiritual world, love is the attracting force that welds together the constituent elements into a composite unity and holds them firm against disintegration.
Love is the cause of life, and hatred or animosity spell death or disintegration.  Just as affinity is the fundamental principle of composition, the greater affinity, love, is the light of unity and the lack of love is the darkness of separateness.  Love is conducive to existence, difference is conducive to disintegration.  Love is the cause of the illumination of the whole of humanity, discord and dissension are the cause of the destruction of the human race.
All the divine messengers have come to this earth as specialists of the law of love.  They came to teach a divine love to the children of men; they came to minister a divine healing between the nations; they came to cement in one the hearts of men and to bring humanity into a state of unity and concord.  In this pathway, each one of these divine Manifestations of God's love has accepted innumerable calamities and hardships.  For the sake of a realization of love and concord amongst men, they have sacrificed their lives.  How many persecutions have they suffered; so that they might bring into a state of harmony those contending nations and religions; so that they might create peace and consolation between these various peoples of the earth!
Let us consider His Holiness Jesus Christ:  how many trials he accepted along this pathway, how many difficulties and persecutions, even giving up his life.  He chose for himself the cross, so that the light of love might shine in the hearts of men, and the various contending nations come into a state of affinity and love, so that love might encompass the hearts of humanity.  This was the purpose.  When a holy and divine man shows us the way and sacrifices himself like Jesus Christ for the sake of love and affinity amongst the children of men, our duty is plain; it is evident that we, likewise, must follow in the footsteps of Jesus Christ.
We too must be ready to sacrifice our lives, so that this love may live.  We must accept every hardship, so that this love may come to the hearts of the people.
Consider carefully that for the last six thousand years there has been constant strife and warfare amongst the people.  All the wars which have occurred in past history have been the basis of the destruction of the human race; love, on the other hand, has been the cause of cementing the people together.
Consider how Jesus Christ, through the power of his love, brought a state of harmony between the Egyptian nation, the Assyrian nation and all the nations of ancient times.  Such a unity and concord was realized amongst these various peoples that the pages of history are adorned with their accomplishments, although formerly these nations were in a state of con-
page 7
stant strife and contention.  Formerly their business was war, but, through the Breath of the Holy Spirit, unity became a creative factor.  The great and wise men of the world have ever striven hard, so that the hearts of humanity might be cemented together by the heavenly teachers, whose mission it is to bring into the world this divine state of love.
The foundation of all religion as taught by all the divine messengers has been love and affinity.  A hundred thousand pities alas! that the divine message has become the means of warfare and strife!
In the Balkans blood is being freely and copiously shed, lives are being destroyed, houses are pillaged, cities are razed to the ground, and all this through religious prejudice; while in reality the foundation of the religion of God is love.  All the divines and holy manifestations invite the exercise of love.  In reality we are living in the midst of the greatest proof of divine love.  For at a time when, in the Orient, there existed the utmost state of strife and sedition, warfare raged between the nations; warfare raged between the religions and between the various sects; darkness encompassed the horizon of the Orient, and each religion asserted its claim over the other-at such a time, under such circumstances, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh shone from the horizon of the East.  He declared that the reality of all religion is one, that all religions have the same foundation for their teaching.  He taught men that the foundation of the religion of God is love.  Alas, that they should have entirely forgotten this foundation!  They have created blind dogmas, and as these blind dogmas develop, we observe constant bloodshed and strife.  If all the religions and sects were to quit themselves from all past limitations and search diligently for the foundation has the foundation of the divine religion is one), there would follow unity and concord, these terrible events would not happen, bloodshed would cease, and hatred between the hearts of men would be dispelled.  Heavenly illumination would dawn, divine love would be created, the efforts of the divine teachers would be held and would yield results, hearts would be knit together, the basis of strife and quarrel would be forgotten, divine justice would be revealed and divine radiance diffused.
In order that the darkness of strife and sedition might be entirely banished from the human world, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh established and taught certain declarations or principles.  The first principle which He proclaimed was the principle of the Oneness of the human family.  He said, "Humanity constitute the sheep of God's flock.  The real shepherd is God."  The real shepherd is compassionate and kind towards all the members of his flock.  Humanity was created by God; He provides for all, protects all.  He is kind to all.  Why should we treat each other harshly?  He has made a plea for love, not for difference, or hatred, or animosity.
God created humanity; none of us were created by Satan.  All are edifices of God, therefore we must strive that these edifices be protected and not seek to destroy them.
The second principle of Bahá'u'lláh concerns international peace and to this end He wrote all the nations and sent special epistles to the rulers and kings of the earth.  Likewise he proclaimed peace amongst the religions.  Was not peace the foundations of religion?  It is time that these limitations and dogmas be done away with, that the foundation of the religion of God be made the means of union and good fellowship.
Again, He proclaimed inter-racial peace, for humanity is the progeny of one Adam-all belong to one lineage.  "This sphere is one globe," He said, and is not divided, the various continents on the face of the globe are in reality one native land, inhabited by one human family; therefore, there should not exist between the various countries this warfare and strife.
Another principle of Bahá'u'lláh is that religion must ever be the means of love; that is, if so-called religion be the cause of hatred and animosity, it is better to quit such religion.  Every affair, every matter which in the world of humanity is the cause of love, that matter is good; but if it is creative of difference amongst the children of men, that matter is evil.  If it be a cause of hatred amongst the people, it is absolute evil.  Irreligion is better than that so-called religion.  The people have made religion the cause of warfare and strife, while the reality of religion is the cause of unity and love.
The fourth teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is relative to the conformity of science and reason with true universal religion.  If it is contrary to science and reason, it is superstition.  A theory which is not acceptable to the mind of man and which science rejects is devoid of reality.  It is a vision of superstition.
The fifth teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is relative to prejudice, which must be abandoned.
page 8
National prejudice must be forgotten, racial prejudice must be obliterated, and patriotic prejudice must likewise be lifted from amongst the people.
Since the beginning of history all the wars which have occurred have been caused primarily through religious prejudice, or racial prejudice, or patriotic prejudice.  As long as these prejudices are not broken, the world of humanity will not attain to perfect peace and tranquillity.
Another teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is relative to the equality of men and women.  In the human family of God there is no distinction.  God is no respecter of gender.  The religion of God is one.  The human family share in common all the faculties; they share in common all the divine bounties.  God has not accredited any difference between the male and the female.  The same education must be given to women as to men, so that they may acquire science and arts, so that they may advance along the course of civilization, in order that they may become proficient and attain to the level of men.
In the Orient women have been very degraded in the past, men giving no importance to them, thinking that men were created superior, but through the teaching of Bahá'u'lláh who declared that a great calling is destined for women, they promoted the facilities for the education and training of the girls.  In a brief space of time the girls and the women alike have advanced along the pathway of education.  Now, in the country of Persia alone, many schools have been organized for the girls, and girls are engaged in the study of the sciences and arts.
The seventh teaching of Bahá'u'lláh concerns itself and is in accord with this system of universal education; it is that all the children should study and acquire a profession, that there should not remain a single individual without a profession whereby he can earn his livelihood.  Bahá'u'lláh further declares that through the equipment of science and art the misunderstandings which have prevailed between religion and science will become reconciled.
The non-conformity of science and religion has been the greatest factor in keeping the religions apart.
If this misunderstanding be taken away from amongst religions, perfect love will be established.  For example, for nearly two thousand years there has been strife and contention between Jews and Christians and it is evident that if the cause thereof be understood with intelligence, it would wipe away from among them all discord; there would remain love and concord.
While in California, in a Jewish Synagogue, in San Francisco, I spoke on this subject.  There were nearly two thousand Jews present.  I said to them, "This long misunderstanding which has been between you and the Christians is very pitiable.  You think that His Holiness Christ destroyed all the foundation of the Mosaic law.  You think that He degraded the law of Moses, you go further and think that His Holiness Christ was the enemy of Moses, while all these things are contrary to history.  The first teaching that His Holiness Christ gave was in regard to the prophethood of Moses.  The first mention He made was in praise of the law of Moses.  His Holiness Christ spread the foundation of the law of Moses, but He abrogated and extended that law to accord with His times.  Before the appearance of Christ the name of Moses was confined to Palestine only, but His Holiness Christ spread the name of Moses throughout the world, and promulgated the Old Testament throughout the nations.  Were it not for Christ, who would have heard the name of Moses in America?  Were it not for the existence of Christ, how would this Bible have been spread so broadcast for 1,500 years?  You could not translate and spread this Bible throughout the nations were it not for the blessings of Christendom.  The Old Testament has reached every corner of the globe, His Holiness Christ established the fact that you are the people of God.  Let us be fair and see whether Christ was the friend of Moses or His enemy?  Let us be just.  Was there ever a greater love than this, and was there ever a greater assistance than this?  His Holiness Christ spread the name of Moses everywhere.  He proclaimed the teachings of the Old Testament.
Consider how this lack of understanding of the Jewish people has created enmity and strife.  His Holiness Christ was the first to proclaim world-wide the name of Moses.  Read the Gospel and you will find out how His Holiness Christ reverently mentions His name.
The paramount declaration of Bahá'u'lláh is that peace must be realized between all the nations of the Earth.  International tribunals will be established and certain representatives from amongst all the governments of the earth will be sent to that inter-parliamentary gathering.  The era of "the parliament of
page 9
man" will be ushered in.  This international tribunal will be the court of appeals between the nations.  Fifty years ago Bahá'u'lláh wrote to all the rulers of the world about this international tribunal of arbitral justice.
These are some of the teachings in the religion of Bahá'u'lláh-all of which would take a great deal of time to expound.  I will just add that it is my hope that during these days in which this Peace Conference1 is discussing negotiations for terms of peace, you will strive to the utmost that peace measures and peaceful negotiations may be carried on among them.  I am very pleased that I am living in London during these days.  I supplicate that the Conference may be crowned with success, so that peace may be established in the Balkans, so that this bloodshed may cease, so that this Conference may become a working basis for the future international peace.  May all the nations and all the countries of the world strive with us, that in the future there may be no war and no bloodshed.
As the English government is a just government and as the British nation is a noble nation and accomplishes whatever it undertakes, it is my hope that in this matter it will manifest the utmost wisdom and sagacity, so that the sun of peace may dawn on the horizon of the Balkans, so that eternal fellowship may be realized among them, and whenever in the future there is any difficult problem a conference may be called for its settlement, so that through these various conferences all the troubles of humanity may be solved.
May there remain no more war and strife; and tranquillity dawn on the world of humanity expressive of the world of light, so that this nether world may be transformed by love and concord and may become the foretaste of the other kingdom.  Then all humanity will be sheltered under the shadow of the Almighty.  This is my hope, this is the highest desire of my life day and night.  I pray and I beg confirmation from God for this government, that this nation may be assisted to hold aloft the banner of international peace.
...
page 10
...
"The Blessing" by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Again a deep and reverent hush fell on the people as 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the blessing in Oriental fashion with hands outstretched and palms upturned:
"O Thou Kind Almighty, we supplicate at the Throne of Grace for mercy for the blood that has been shed in the Balkans; the children that are being made orphans; the mothers losing their dear sons; the sons who have become fatherless; the cities that have been destroyed; the many hearts that have been filled with sorrow; the many tears that are being shed and the many spirits that are in a state of agitation!
"O Lord, be merciful, extinguish this spirit of war, this consuming fire, this peril, this gloomy darkness!  Cement together these hearts, let the sun of Thy Truth dawn upon all.
"O Lord! this world is dark, guide us toward a brilliant light.  The horizons are glooming with the clouds of war; disperse these impenetrable clouds.  Grant us holiness and calm!  Dispose of these quarrels, illuminate the horizon of life, so that the sun of real loyalty may shine with its rays.  May these dark hearts become illuminated, may these blind eyes become open, may these deaf cars become gifted with hearing.
"O Lord! cause Thy divine justice to appear in this world.  Summon these people to the Banquet of International Peace, so that they may live together in the utmost state of love.  May all the religions and all nations embrace each other with this spirit of universal kindliness, and may hatred be forgotten.
"O Lord! confirm this just government in the establishment of peace, so that it may hold aloft the banner of reconciliation in the Balkans.  May the light of love shine and flame forth undefiled.  O Lord!  Thou art Almighty; Thou art Merciful; Thou art Clement; Thou art Kind!"


III:18, 7 February 1913
page 8
'Abdu'l-Bahá at the "Salvation Army" shelter
London, England, Christmas Night, 1912.
Isabel Fraser
On Christmas night 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited the poor of the Salvation Army Shelter, Westminster, where each year a Christmas dinner is provided for those who have no homes and no friends, and but for the shelter would have no lodgings.  There were about 1,000 present on this occasion.  It was a most impressive scene-the dinner for the homeless and the Master from the East delivering Christ's message to the poor.  As a true test of attention, many of the hungry men forgot to eat and listened intently.
With that wonderful tact 'Abdu'l-Bahá displays on all occasions, his message to the homeless was simple, direct and short.  He said:
"I feel tonight great joy and happiness to be in this place, because my meetings and callings have ever been mostly with the poor, and I call myself one of them.  My lot has ever been with those who have not the goods of this world.  When we look at the poor of humanity, we behold a world of brothers.  All are the sheep of God; God is the real shepherd.  The poor have ever been the cause of the freedom of the world of humanity; the poor have ever been the cause of the up-building of the country; the poor have ever laboured for the world's production; the morals of the poor have ever been above those of the rich; the poor are ever nearer to the threshold of God; the humanitarianism of the poor has ever been more acceptable at the threshold of God.
"Consider his Holiness Christ:  He appeared in the world as one of the poor.  He was born of a lowly family; all the apostles of Christ were of humble birth and His followers were of the very poorest of the community.  This is what Christ states in the Gospels.  'It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God.'  This testimony of Christ of the exaltation of the poor ones in the sight of God is sufficient.  It is easy for the poor, very easy for them to enter into the Kingdom of God.  In another place Christ speaks of the charity of the poor ones of the world as praiseworthy.  The poor ones have capacity.  They were favoured at the threshold of God.  If wealth were a necessity, Christ would have wished it for himself:  He lived a simple life, and one of the titles of Bahá'u'lláh was 'the poor one'.  In Persian His title was 'darvish' and that means one who has not a slave.
"All the prophets of God were poor, His Holiness Moses was a mere shepherd.  This will show you that in the estimation of God, poverty is greater than the accumulation of wealth-that the poor are more acceptable than the lazy rich.  A rich man who spends his wealth for the poor is praiseworthy.  Consider that the poor are not born in a state of solvency; they are not tyrannous.  All the tyranny and injustice in this world comes from accumulation.  The poor have ever been
page 9
humble and lowly; their hearts are tender.  The rich are not so.
"Sorrow not, grieve not.  Be not unhappy because you are not wealthy.  You are the brothers of Jesus Christ.  Christ was poor; Bahá'u'lláh was poor.  For forty years he was imprisoned in poverty.  The great ones of the world have come from a lowly station.  Be ever happy; be not sad!  Trust in God and if in this world you undergo dire vicissitudes I hope that in the Kingdom of God you will have the utmost happiness!"
At the close of his talk, 'Abdu'l-Bahá made a practical demonstration of his tactful love for the poor.  In generous conformity with Bahá'u'lláh's teachings that "our words should not exceed our deeds," he left twenty golden sovereigns and many handfuls of silver with Colonel Spencer of the Army, so that the poor might enjoy a similar dinner New Year's night.  Colonel Spencer told the men that they were to have this New Year's dinner in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's honour.  The Master was just leaving the hall when this announcement was made.  With one accord the men jumped up and waving their knives and forks gave a rousing farewell cheer.
Before leaving 'Abdu'l-Bahá was shown all over the shelter and at the outer door he said to the attendant officer in charge, "May God prosper you.  May you all be under the protection of the Almighty!"


III:18, 7 February 1913
page 9
'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Cedar Club, London
2 January 1913
L. Heron-Oliphant
Through an insistent rain and blustering wind, the motor bore us across the Albert Bridge to the borough of Battersea.  We turned from one of the important highways into a dark, narrow, drizzling street, to stop before an inviting open door.  The Cedar Club House is maintained by the Women's Service League, a noble institution of devoted workers, who provide sustaining food to toiling mothers and see to it that their children receive the best nourishment during the first year of their lives.  A similar stratum of this poverty is unknown to American communities.  In London and other great cities of the Old World a pall of hopelessness seems almost to overshadow human effort that offers alleviation, for there are generations of pauperism with its deep-rooted evils.  The fine courage of these benefactors and their zeal in preserving life despite the ever-hovering discouragement, mark their influence as a spiritual reality.
Here it was that 'Abdu'l-Bahá chose to spend the remaining hours of an afternoon.  We entered a large assembly room, radiant and warm with the spirit of Christmas cheer.  Masses of green and red decoration repeated, as it were, the season's welcome.  At two great tables, spread the length of the long walls, were seated nearly sixty women with over a hundred little folk.  There were evidences of a substantial high tea, the major part of the feasting being over.
A platform, near the door through which we passed, held the usual paraphernalia for speakers.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was expected to deliver an address from this formal elevation, but as the real friend of the poor, he walked straight among them, into the body of the room.  This, at once established the charm of comradeship.  With light characteristic step, he walked up and down the centre aisle, his eyes and smile beamed happiness.  As he mingled with them, his words were translated:  "I am very glad to be among you, who are blessed in God's name with children.  They are the true signs of his spiritual love.  The most divine gifts of God.  These little ones will grow to be fruitful trees.  We must look to them for the founders of many beautiful families.  Let their education be directed in the ways of purity and useful service.  Here are the seeds of the future race and upon them may be granted God's blessing."
'Abdu'l-Bahá stopped at the end of one table, patted the head of a wan little child in its mother's arms.  A tiny hand stretched out and the Master gently closed it over a bright new shilling.  Down the long rows of women and children he passed from one to another, pausing a few moments to bless each little upturned face, and bestow a silver coin.  The remarkably tender hands caressed a baby's cheek or chin.  One could hear him pronounce distinct words of comfort to the tiniest members of the audience.  In the arms of one mother were twin children almost completely detached in sleep from the ceremonies of the moment.  The Master bent over them, placing two pieces of money under the rosy chins-two pairs of deep blue eyes opened wide in the spell of wonder.
page 10
The absence of tears from the many wee souls, who are not given to complacently accepting strange faces, singularly illustrates the infinite sincerity of the very young, who respond to the same quality that is ever present in matured spiritual character.  One noticed, too, the thoughtful gaze of the women as they watched the distinguished visitor in white turban and brown burnous,1 moving in their midst.  It is often too true that the very poor are keenly suspicious of foreigners, especially if their mission is a religious one, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá brings into every environment a profound truth and sympathy that seems to crush the barriers, raised by isolated imaginations.
The expression of tolerant, grateful, understanding was in the very faces of these people.  No one could have desired a more cordial co-operation than was tendered to the Master by the assembled members of Cedar Club.  A vote of thanks, followed by a volume of accordant cheers, marked the departure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
As we drove away he said, "I am truly happy when among the gatherings of the poor.  It brings full joy to my heart.  I come in contact with those in high stations of life, and those rich in worldly possessions, but my joy is in being with those who are in material poverty, for their sufferings draw them nearer to God in spiritual gain."
[end of Book 2 (Vol. II, Nos 12-19 and Vol. III, Nos 1-18)
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh in 'Akká, Syria.
1	Refer to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 65.
1	First instalment is in Vol. III:1.
1	(1)  The Forerunner, The Báb, The Door; (2)  The Manifestation, Bahá'u'lláh, The Glory of God; (3)  The Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, The Servant of Bahá.
1	This story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's arrival in America was written by Wendell Phillips Dodge, a reporter for the New York City News Association, who boarded the Cedric at quarantine and interviewed 'Abdu'l-Bahá coming up the bay.  It was given to all of the New York newspapers, and, through the Associated Press, was sent, though boiled down considerably, to newspapers throughout the world.-Editors.
1	This Introduction was translated orally into Persian, by Dr Amín U. Faríd, after which 'Abdu'l-Bahá arose and spoke as follows.
1	This interview was prompted by the fact that an article prepared by Rev. J. T. Bixby for publication in the North American Review had been objected to by Bahá'ís to whom it had been submitted, as incorrect and misleading.  Although the truth embodied in the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá completely disprove the erroneous statements, the article in question slightly amended, was afterward published.  It should also be noted that 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his preliminary setting forth of the historical accomplishment of the Bahá'í Movement disqualifies the writer and his motive before a question is asked.-Editor.
1	Note:   In conformity with this principle:  Before the departure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from the orient for his visit to this country a large amount of money contributed by friends here was forwarded to him with the request that he accept it toward defraying his expenses.  He returned the money with a blessing, asking the donors to apply it to some philanthropic object.  During his stay in this country, his gifts to churches and charity have been many and most generous in amount.  Editor.
1	Refer to The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 189-190.
1	A Tree planted at the end of the Road for the guidance of the traveller.
1	Bahá'u'lláh's admonitions to the teacher:  "The effect of the word spoken by the teacher depends upon his purity of purpose and his severance"  "The words must be according to what has proceeded from the Mouth of the Will of God and is recorded in Tablets"; and His command to turn to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's interpretation thereof, also recorded in Tablets, is what we understand by these statements.-Editors.
1	23 May AD 1844.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to a group of earnest listeners while remaining seated and spoke in Persian, M. Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney, of Paris, acting as Interpreter.
1	Held in London during armistice of Balkan-Turkish war.
1	An Arab or Moorish hooded cloak.
