This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  November 2000.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
from the George Ronald Book 5 reprint of
Star of the West1
Volume VIII, Nos 1-19 (21 March 1917-2 March 1918)
Volume IX, Nos 1-19 (21 March 1918-2 March 1919)
and
Volume X, Nos 1-5 (21 March 1919-5 June 1919)


VIII:1, 21 March 1917
page 3
The economic teaching of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Mary Hanford Ford
The reader of this article may wonder at the importance attributed to the teachings and utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and a word of explanation in regard to his position in the world may not be inopportune.  He is the leader of the Bahá'í movement, a great centre of progressive thought, which had its origin in the illumined message of 'Alí Muhammad, later called the Báb, given to the Persian people in 1844.  The Báb was martyred by the Persian government in 1850, as he was considered a dangerous heretic from the Muslim point of view, and Islám is a state religion.  As is natural in such cases, any deviation from the established faith becomes in a way treasonable in the conception of the government.  Before this tragic event took place, however, the Báb, had fully proclaimed his mission and prophecies.  Foreseeing his own end, he told the people that he himself was but the herald of the new day, which would centre in the remarkable Revelator to follow him, who would be the Messenger of God for this period, and whom he always spoke of under the title of the Glory of God, or Bahá'u'lláh.  He declared that Bahá'u'lláh would bring peace and unity to mankind, and revive the true knowledge of God in all the world.
The essentials of human progress were included and insisted upon in the message of the Báb; and Bahá'u'lláh, who followed him, has written eloquent pages outlining the tendencies of future civilization.  The Bahá'í movement which for many years has been a growing power in the Orient, in spite of the cruel persecution of governments, has at length penetrated the western world, and shows clearly that the ethical ideals of our most advanced western economics were generated and came to expression years ago, in the minds of these illuminated eastern teachers.
According to the teaching of these supreme educators, messengers of God have been coming to the world from the beginning of creation, and their province is to refresh the soul of man as it grows cold to the love of God, and restore its sensitiveness to the breath of the holy spirit.  Thus Moses came, Zoroaster, Muhammad, Christ came, and today the inspiring and ever necessary message has been given once more by the trinity of Persian teachers, who bring a universal teaching, through which all the races of mankind will be enlightened.
'Abdu'l-Bahá is the son of Bahá'u'lláh.  He was imprisoned when only nine years old, at the time when his father was seized with his entire family and his immense property confiscated, simply because he had openly become a follower of the Báb, and a believer in the Oneness of God and humanity.
The Bahá'í conception is that three persons are always combined in the annunciation of a divine message.  As Christ was heralded by John the Baptist, and followed by Peter, Moses was presaged by his herald, and followed by
page 4
Joshua; the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá are the trinity of today, though the station of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is more nearly allied to that of the centre than in any previous case.  He is called the Centre of the Covenant renewed today between God and man, as it was renewed in the days of Christ and his predecessors.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's title means the Servant of God, and naturally he can have no successor in the movement.
The intensely humanitarian feeling of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is amply shown in his life, and his economic teaching manifests a singularly accurate acquaintance with the sociological conditions of the western world.  He is well aware of the fact that measures of charitable relief are only palliations rendered necessary by existing misfortune and by no means to be considered more than methods of temporary relief.  Nevertheless the charity, and the spirit of instant service in the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are most inspiring.
His childhood and his youth were passed in moving from one oriental prison to another, until at last he lived in 'Akká, the prison town of the Sultán, as a prisoner on parole, controlling his own household, under the surveillance of the Turkish police.  In this way he became familiar with all aspects of oriental poverty, and permitted himself the privilege of relieving it.  In 'Akká as a prisoner he could do nothing against existing abuses except palliate their results, but this he did constantly.
Every Friday morning the poor of 'Akká gathered in the courtyard of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's house, and he went among them personally.  He knew them all by name, he knew just which one needed a coat or a warm shawl, he sent a physician or healed those who were ill.  Those whom he succoured were never among his own followers, for the believer in the revelation of Bahá'u'lláh does not beg.  They were Muslims, sectaries of the creed which had persecuted him, deprived his father of property, liberty and station, and martyred the Báb, but they loved 'Abdu'l-Bahá as their benefactor, and did not bother their heads about his religion.
'Abdu'l-Bahá had a donkey upon which he was accustomed to ride about the town daily upon his philanthropic missions.  An American woman who was his guest at one time was terribly annoyed at the nightly braying of this creature, which she declared prevented her from sleeping, but when she discovered that it was the donkey upon which 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited the sick, its braying suddenly assumed a musical character, and no longer disturbed her.  Often when the family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was about to sit down to dinner at night, the report would come of some unfortunate who was starving, and who had been overlooked in the visits of the day.  Then quickly the hot appetizing meal would be bundled into a basket, and rushed away to the suffering family, while 'Abdu'l-Bahá would smile and say, "It does not matter for us, we had dinner last night, we shall have dinner tomorrow!"
Often he sent his bed to a feverish invalid whom he discovered, because it required thirty-six hours at least to procure a bed from Haifa, the nearest point of supply, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá would be perfectly comfortable wrapped in a blanket, and lying upon the floor of his room, or the roof of the house, while he would not have been able to sleep at all, conscious of a bedless invalid, feverish and pain racked.  He could not endure the sight of suffering which he was able to relieve.
When he reached the Occident, however, 'Abdu'l-Bahá faced a condition which troubled him greatly, because it was beyond his power to assuage the misery he saw constantly about him.  Housed luxuriously at Cadogan Gardens, London, he knew that within a stone's throw of him were people who had never had enough to eat-and in New York there was exactly the same situation.  These things made him exceedingly sad and he said:  "The time will come in the near future when humanity will become
page 5
so much more sensitive than at present that the man of great wealth will not enjoy his luxury, in comparison with the deplorable poverty about him.  He will be forced, for his own happiness, to expend his wealth to procure better conditions for the community in which he lives."
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá first arrived in England he was the guest of a friend in a village not far from London.  The evident poverty around him in this wealthy country distressed him greatly.  He would walk out in the town, garbed in his white turban and long Persian coat, and all eyes were centred upon this strange visitor, who, the people had been told, was "a holy man from the East".  Naturally the children were attracted to him, followed him, pulled at his coat, or his hand, and were immediately taken into his arms and caressed.  This delighted them, of course, and children are never afraid of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but what pleased and amazed them still more was that when they were put down they found in their little hands a shilling or sixpence from the capacious pockets of "the holy man's" long coat.  Such bits of silver were a rarity in their experience, and they ran home with joy to tell the tale of the generous stranger from the Orient, possessed apparently of an endless store of shining sixpences.
The children crowded after him and so many sixpences were dispensed that the friend who entertained 'Abdu'l-Bahá became alarmed, and talked the matter over with Miss Robarts, who was also a guest in the house.  "It is a shame!" they said indignantly.  "He comes to us accepting nothing, and is giving to our people all the time!  It must not go on!
That day 'Abdu'l-Bahá had bestowed many sixpences, and people had come from the neighbouring villages, bringing their children to receive the blessing from "the holy man,"-and of course the sixpences!  About nine o'clock in the evening the ladies, decided that no one else must see 'Abdu'l-Bahá that night.  But as they waited outside the cottage, a man came up the path, carrying one baby, and with others clinging to him.  When he asked for "the holy man", however, he was told severely that he could not be seen, he was very tired and had gone to bed.  The man sighed, as he said, "Oh, I have walked six miles from far away to see him.  I am so sorry!"
The hostess responded severely, feeling that the desire for sixpences had prompted the journey perhaps more than religious enthusiasm, and the man sighed more deeply than ever, and was turning away, when suddenly 'Abdu'l-Bahá came around the corner of the house.  The way in which he embraced the man and all the babies was so wonderful, that the hearts of the too careful friends melted within them, and when he at last sent away the unbidden guests, comforted, their hearts full of joy, their hands bursting with sixpences, the two friends looked at one another and said:  "How wrong we were!  We will never again try to manage 'Abdu'l-Bahá!"
Perhaps the most beautiful encounters with the poor he had in the Occident were at the Salvation Army headquarters in London, and the Bowery Mission in New York.  Here he consoled the men for their poverty, saying:  "Do not consider your poverty a degradation.  The greatest of men have always been poor, the poets, and philosophers and benefactors of the race.  Christ had no where to lay his head.  The Messengers of God are ever overwhelmed by poverty and persecution.  Moses was an outcast, and Muhammad a wanderer and an exile.  Bahá'u'lláh suffered the utmost poverty and oppression, and I have known nothing but poverty and prison walls."
In London he gave the men a sum for a New Year's dinner which should duplicate the Christmas feast, and at the Bowery Mission he shook hands with each man at the close of the evening and gave him a quarter.  A year afterward nearly every one of those men had kept his quarter because as one of them said:
"That was a heavenly man, and his
page 6
quarter was not like other quarters, it will bring me luck!"
One result of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's charity was the example of personal contact which it established.  He said:  "If the rich should see for themselves the evil conditions which exist, they would become eager to alter them.  It is necessary in relieving poverty to come into direct touch with its pain.  Then the world will determine to abolish it."
He said also, "The spending of money for the help of another brings a great blessing, but the mere dispatch of a check the loss of which one never feels is nothing."
Perhaps the tender heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was never more fully manifested than in the incident which occurred in California.  His hostess in San Francisco had arranged an interview with the Mayor of Berkeley.  There was to be a grand reception, and many dignitaries and University people were to be present.  As the appointed hour for departure approached the hostess went upstairs to warn 'Abdu'l-Bahá that the time was near.  He smiled and waved her away, saying "Very soon!  Very soon!"
She left him with some impatience, for there was no evidence of preparation for the trip.  After some time she went up again, for the automobile was honking at the door, and it looked as if the Mayor of Berkeley would be kept waiting.  But she met only a smile, and "Very soon!  Very soon!" from the important guest.  At last her patience was quite exhausted for she knew that they could not possibly arrive at the reception in time.  Suddenly there was a ring at the door bell.  Immediately 'Abdu'l-Bahá's step was on the stair, and when the door opened he was beside the maid, pulling over the threshold a dusty and dishevelled man whom no one had ever heard of, but whom 'Abdu'l-Bahá embraced like a long lost friend.
The man lived fifteen miles from San Francisco.  He had read of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the newspapers.  He felt that he must see him at any cost, but he had not five cents for street car fare.  So he started to walk to San Francisco, and if 'Abdu'l-Bahá had set forth promptly to fill his engagement with the Mayor of Berkeley he would have missed this seeker after truth.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá had felt his approach, and would not leave for his appointment until he saw this friend of the spirit seated at his hostess' table, so well panoplied with sandwiches and tea that it was fully evident his outer man would be refreshed.
Then he said:  "Now I must go, but when you have finished, wait for me in my room upstairs, until I return, and then we will have a great talk."
It is with this fund of deep sympathy and a profound comprehension that 'Abdu'l-Bahá approaches the modern economic problem, but he does not regard it from any sentimental point of view.  The new time is coming he declares, and it will manifest itself along two lines-a change in the human heart, and new laws enacted in every country.  We cannot introduce the divine civilization by legislation alone, he says, there must be a change in the human heart before this is possible.
The lines along which the better government is coming have been clearly indicated by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  When he was in New York in 1912 some one was talking to him about the United States, and he said:
"You did a wonderful thing in this country in 1865 when you abolished chattel slavery, but you must do a much more wonderful thing now, you must abolish industrial slavery!"1
Only a few people understood in 1912 that the curse of industrial slavery existed among us, but the events which followed this dynamic utterance of 'Abdu'l-Bahá made it plainly manifest.  Is there not a wireless which carries the suggestion of a powerful mind to many hearts, and commands results?  It is certainly most interesting to observe how closely the economic tendencies which have developed in the United States since 1912 have carried out the possibili-
page 7
ties indicated by 'Abdu'l-Bahá as denoting the future evolution of the country and the age.
In 1913 Congress appointed an Industrial Commission to investigate industrial conditions in the states, and best of all made Frank Walsh its chairman.  There could hardly have been a better selection, for Frank Walsh is a criminal lawyer of wide fame and independent means, noted for his capacity to draw the truth from the most refractory witness, absolutely proof against graft, or that insidious and menacing respect for position and wealth, which so frequently prevents the escape of truth from its prison.
So the Commission went, from place to place, unveiling the abuses of every locality, and two of the immediate results of its testimony are the federal laws for the prevention of Child Labour, and the Workmen's Compensation Act, neither of them perfect, but both a long step in the right direction.
Meanwhile every thinking American now knows that industrial slavery exists among us, and that it behoves us to remove it.  The startling enactment of the Adamson Law is another pregnant move along the same line.  Whatever may be the immediate result, great consequences must flow from it, for very soon no employer in this country will be able to enforce labour for more than eight hours a day, and this is only the beginning of change.  The invention of labour-saving machinery which has been going on for many years would have had naturally the consequence of shortening the hours of labour, if the machines had not been in the hands of the capitalist class, who wished to use them only for increasing their own profits, and they must attain their natural aim of increasing the leisure of the world, so that all may have time for culture, for thought, to know God, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá says.
'Abdu'l-Bahá in speaking of the changes that are coming into our economic life, said the solution of the struggle between labour and capital will be found in co-operation and profit sharing.  The workers in any institution will presently be regarded as partners, and they will receive their proper share of the profits of the business.  Whether in a factory or a mercantile enterprise the same rule will be applied.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, said in 1912 at Dublin, New Hampshire, in discussing economic questions:  "Now I want to tell you about the law of God.  According to the divine law, no wages should be given to the employee.  Nay, rather indeed they are partners in every work. ...
"The question of socialization is very important.  It will not be solved by strikes for wages.  All the governments of the world must be united and organize an assembly, the members of which should be elected from the parliaments and nobles of the nations.  These must plan with utmost wisdom and power, so that neither the capitalists suffer from enormous losses, nor the labourers become needy.  In the utmost moderation they should make the law, then announce to the public that the rights of the working people are to be strongly preserved.  Also the rights of the capitalists are to be protected.  When such a general law is adopted, by the will of both sides, should a strike occur, all the governments of the world collectively should resist it.  Otherwise the work will lead to much destruction, especially in Europe.  Terrible things will take place.  One of the several causes of a universal European war will be this question.  For instance the owners of properties, mines and factories should share their incomes with their employees, and give a fairly certain percentage of their products to their workingmen, in order that the employees may receive, beside their wages, some of the general income of the factory, so that the employee may strive with his soul in his work."1
As organizations for the supreme enrichment of the few, the trusts, he said, must go; but the principle of organiza-
page 11
tion will remain for the benefit of all.  The employees must benefit from them as well as the managers.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has also said some remarkable things along the line of income and inheritance taxation.  He said, for instance, while in this country:  "In future a manufacturer will not be allowed to leave all his property to his own family.  A law will be made something like this,-that he must leave one-quarter only of his property to his family, and the other three-quarters must go to the factory workers who have created his wealth."
Indications of the realization of these predictions are already evident along many lines.  A new feeling is manifesting itself in the commercial life of our country.  Many of the great department stories which furnished formerly the most vivid illustrations of money mania, are now showing the new spirit.  For instance, the fine establishment of Filene's in Boston has for years carried on a profit-sharing plan with its employees, which has worked admirably for the enrichment of the concern, and has created an excellent feeling both among employees and customers.  Moreover, the influence of the heads of this establishment has gone far and wide, and always in the same direction.  The principle of the house has been that the endeavour of an institution must not be first of all to make money, but first to give good service to the public and fair treatment to employees.  Filene's is the pioneer enterprise in realizing such principles and has given them wide publicity.  Meanwhile the idea is bearing fruit everywhere and one sees its expression in the trade journals and in advertising.  In former days we looked to our poets and preachers for the enunciation of noble sentiments and inspiring ideals, but now we find these not only on the stage, but in the advertising columns of our daily papers.  For instance, here is an expression of feeling from Henry P. Williams who is the head of an advertising firm in Chicago:
"The man of real progress is always mentally, just a little ahead of where he is now.  The idealist, the man of real imagination, seizes upon the present fact,
page 12
and transforms it mentally into what it may be in the future, and projects it before him.  Such a man is the really practical man.
"So long as the host saw God in the pillar of cloud by day, and the pillar of fire by night, they went forward with confidence; they followed an ideal.  It was only when they lost the imaginative vision, when the cloud and the fire, being seen every day and every night became mere meteorological phenomena, that the host began to wander aimlessly.
"Blessed is the man to whom the ideal is always real; to whom the 'pillar of fire' of the sunset is always a sacred mystery of beauty; to whom the stars are forever an awe-inspiring revelation; to whom the business he happens to be in the making of clothes, of shoes, or machines, or the selling of any merchandise in a fair way-is a continuous enthusiasm; to whom the prosaic business duties of each day offer a recurring opportunity for the advancing of the interests of good business, and thereby the interests of good people."
This sentiment printed upon a card hangs upon the wall in the big store of Willard Ashton in Rockford, Illinois, and expresses the spirit of the institution, which is one of the many now endeavouring in our country to spiritualize capital, or capitalize spirit, realizing that in this day the two opposite ends of creation must be brought together.
There is a school for saleswomen in Boston, conducted by Mrs Prince, which has had an admirable influence.  This lady wishing to improve the condition of saleswomen, and believing that education, skill and intelligence would do this better than anything else, opened her school, and has had such remarkable success that her graduates are in all the leading department stores of the country, and their presence seems to carry everywhere a new atmosphere of intelligence and the necessity for justice and kindness, which are the foundation for real brotherhood.
The famous establishment of Altman's in New York is one where these principles have been evident for many years, and when Mr Altman died recently he left a large portion of his fortune to be divided among his employees and as a fund for the future conduct of the store.  The action of Henry Ford in declaring that his employees must share in the prosperity of his establishment has had enormous influence upon the public mind, and he has extended his generosity of late by equalizing the pay of men and women in his factory.  Edison has done the same thing more quietly and for a long time has shared his profits with his employees.  Both instances illustrate the statement of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that in the coming time men of wealth cannot enjoy their own luxury unless they use their means to improve the condition of others.
On the Pacific coast the fruit growers and farmers have formed co-operative alliances in business which have already broken the power of the commission men, whose intensely competitive practices threatened to drive the entire Pacific coast into bankruptcy.  The fruit growers are now able to sell their product independently, and while the consumer pays no more than formerly, the producer is able to live in comfort.  An interesting fact in connection with the growth of the "exchanges" is that there seems to be no temptation towards graft or dishonesty in this form of business.  As all transactions are for mutual benefit, no one seeks to defraud another for his own enrichment.  Nor do the men try to "corner" the market to increase the price.  Wall Street practices are naturally banished from these associations where the desire is to benefit the many and not the few.
In California 70 per cent of the fruit growers have formed these co-operative exchanges and last year Governor Johnson appointed Mr Weinstock, who had become famous through his organization of the raisin-growers' exchange, Supervisor of markets for California, which meant in reality, as the Californians
page 13
understood it, supervisor of co-operative progress, and his appointment was hailed with great delight.  Recently President Wilson, through the Department of Agriculture sent a committee of three to the north-west to assist the farmers of that section in forming co-operative exchanges like those of California.
In these enterprises the working people do not yet share the profits.  The associations have been made to break the grasping power of the middle man, and people have not yet wakened to the broader ethical aspects of the case.  But the rights of the harvester must be recognized in the near future, because it is the day when the worker is coming into his own, and fortunately the harvester is at present one of the best paid workers in the United States, and cannot complain of a badly ventilated factory.
While in this country in 1912 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave a remarkable talk before the socialist club of Montreal, in which he outlined the economic development of the coming time, and suggested a form of the income tax entirely new.  He gave as an illustration of the way in which the plan would work, an agricultural community.
In the beginning he said, "In reality all mankind represents one family, God desires that each individual member of the body politic should live in the utmost well being and comfort.  If all do not enjoy life there is a lack of symmetry in the body politic."
He then outlined a scheme by which the utmost justice could be brought into the communal life.  He said the products of the community should be stored in a storehouse, that each man's share should be noted and when the property was sold, each should receive his proportion, and the tax he should pay to the community would be estimated from his share in the property.
At the time when 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke, no such thing as a community storehouse had been heard of in this country, but during the past two years its reality has been rapidly developing in North Dakota.  The farmers in that section have been almost driven into bankruptcy by the exactions of the banks and the grain dealers.  The farmer had no elevator in which to store his grain, and the banks would lend no money until the grain was harvested.  Moreover he could get no accommodation except at a rate of from 12 to 14 per cent, and even then with ruinous restrictions.  So he was obliged to look on while the middle man came along and bought his grain at starvation prices, to the producer, stored it in his elevator, and then immediately borrowed money on it at the bank, with which he went forth to buy more grain at starvation prices.
When the situation became unendurable the North Dakota farmers rose up in more than protest.  They formed a "Federal Association" which included the entire state.  They had already endeavoured in vain to elect legislators, either democratic or republican, who would pass a law enabling them to build state elevators.  So this year they broke the machines of both parties, sent their own men to the legislature, and are to build state elevators for the grain of North Dakota.  Naturally in the process of this communal action, the country has developed a communal feeling quite unprecedented, and certain to lead to unusual progress in the future.  Meanwhile the Rural Credits law has passed, assuring them easier money, and relieving them from the exactions of the banks.  The Rural Credits Law is by no means perfect.  It surrounds the issuing of money to the farmer with too many restrictions and is not yet freed from the over suspicion of the banking system.  But it is a step forward and brings relief where it is much needed.  Undoubtedly, in the future, its restrictions will be removed, and it will enable the needy one to obtain help without such a superfluity of red tape.
However, North Dakota is to have elevators, and the first step toward the remarkable plan suggested by 'Abdu'l-Bahá has thus been taken.  For his plan as to
page 14
the income tax is unique, as has been said, and unlike any other that has been thought of.  Most conservative people object to an income tax, and the most progressive yet attempted is to make the tax an increasing one, in proportion to the income taxed.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says the tax must be levied in proportion to the excess of the income over the needs of the person taxed.  If a man has an income of two thousand dollars, and expenses of two thousand dollars, he shall not be taxed at all, but if he has an income of ten thousand dollars, and expenses of two thousand or five thousand, he shall be taxed on the amount left over from his expenses.  Thus if a man has an income of twenty thousand dollars, and expenses of only five, he could pay a large tax; if an income of fifty thousand dollars, and expenses of ten a still larger one.
This suggestion of taxation seems to imply a growing simplicity of life, and sincerity of heart, which do not exist today, because many a man would increase his expenses to decrease his tax, from the point of view of our time, and indulgence is so intensified by opportunity, that expenses often keep pace fully with increased income.  In his illustration, however, 'Abdu'l-Bahá is placing before us a condition in which communal equality and communal fair dealing have already been established, and the most surprising feature of his income tax is yet to come.
In ordinary economic planning the increased income tax is simply intended to enrich the community, and reduce excessive wealth, but in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's scheme it is an elastic measure, benefiting rich and poor alike, because it takes from the citizen possessed of a surplus, to relieve the one suffering from a deficiency.  Thus while the man with a surplus pays a large percentage into the treasury, the man whose expenses are greater than his income can draw from the common fund the sum lacking for the comfort or education of his family.  If a man has expenses of two thousand a year, and his income has been cut down to one, he draws the necessary surplus from the common fund, until his affairs are adjusted, and he in his turn has a surplus.
The conservative will immediately cry out against such a measure, as one encouraging mendicancy, but we must remember that this adjustment only applies to the ideal community of the future, from which both suspicion and mendicancy have been banished.  The steps toward the establishment of such a commonwealth have already been taken, and may be completed in a surprisingly short time.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says that in future the accumulation of immense private fortunes will cease, because man's power of spiritual vision will increase so noticeably that he will be conscious of existence after death.  He will realize that the present life opens the door to the coming one, and he will not be willing to expend all his energy in the attainment of wealth or fame, which have nothing to do with eternity, which on the contrary would act as a hindrance to the advancement of the soul in its onward career.  He will prefer to use his energies for the benefit of society of which he is a member, after he has provided for his own needs, and he will lose the desire to centralize splendid power in himself.  He will prefer to establish qualities which will remain his in the other life, rather than accumulate merely material advantages which he must leave behind him when he goes yonder.  A great pugilist, or a successful financier may be enormously honoured by his contemporaries, but he may not find himself too well supplied with capital in the other realm when he reaches it.
When man realizes that the continuation of life means the endless development of talent and opportunity, he will know that what he begins here, he will have the certainty of completing farther along in his career, and he will therefore look at existence from a vastly different point of view.
'Abdu'l-Bahá says the trouble with our
page 15
economics heretofore has been twofold.  Its system and application have been purely material, instead of material and spiritual, they have been purely masculine, instead of masculine and feminine.  We need the feminine influence in the world housekeeping, says the great educator.  When he met the suffragists of London in 1912, he expressed his opinion in regard to equal rights, and then asked Mrs Pethick Lawrence to say what she thought was wrong with the world.  She replied that in her opinion humanity had been trying to fly with one wing, when in reality it needed two for perfect flight.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, "What would you think if I said that humanity not only needs another wing, but the wing that has been lacking is the stronger, and with its aid humanity will take a wider flight than it has ever achieved before?"  Then he went on to tell the beautiful story of Zenobia, Queen of Palmyra, and her attainments, showing that the supreme woman is not only capable of leadership and government, but that she possesses a faithful love, a power of self-sacrifice, in which she remains completely feminine, no matter what public functions her life may compass.
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá, had completed his tour of the western world, in 1912, he returned to London, and the editor of the Asiatic Quarterly Review thought it would be intensely interesting to have the opinion of the "greatest prisoner" in regard to western civilization, so different in every respect from that of the Orient.  He therefore asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá to write this article, and the result was a most luminous expression as to the meaning of civilization and the faults evident in that of the West.
'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "All that one observes in the Western Hemisphere are the appearances of the material world, and not of the divine world.
"As there are many defects in the world of nature, the lights of divine civilization are hidden, and nature has become the ruler over all things.
"In the world of nature the greatest dominant note is the struggle for existence-the result of which is the survival of the fittest.  The law of the survival of the fittest is the origin of all difficulties.  It is the cause of war and strife, hatred and animosity between human beings.
"In the world of nature there is tyranny, egoism, aggression, overbearance, usurpation of the rights of others, and other blameworthy attributes which are the defects of the animal world.  Therefore so long as the requirements of the natural world play paramount part among the children of men, success and prosperity are impossible.  For the success of the human world depends upon the qualities and virtues with which the reality of humanity is adorned; while the exigencies of the natural world work against the realization of this object.
"Nature is warlike, nature is bloodthirsty, nature is tyrannical, nature is unaware of His Highness the Almighty.  That is why these cruel qualities are natural to the animal world.
"Therefore His Highness the Lord of mankind, having great love and mercy, has caused the appearance of the prophets, and the revelations of the holy books, so that through divine education the world of humanity may be released from the corruption of nature and the darkness of ignorance; be confirmed with ideal virtues, the susceptibilities of consciousness, and the spiritual attributes, and become the dawning place of merciful emotions.  This is divine civilization.  Today in the world of humanity material civilization is like unto a lamp of the utmost transparency, but this lamp-a thousand times alas-is deprived of light.  This light is divine civilization, which is instituted by the holy divine Manifestations.
"This century is the century of light.  This century is the century of the appearance of reality.  This century is the century of universal progress."
'Abdu'l-Bahá goes on to tell us how we can incorporate the divine laws into
page 16
the government of the world so as to create an ideal civilization, and he says we are to do this through the study of reality, the promotion of universal fellowship, the inculcation of divine love through the power of religion, the abandonment of religious, racial, patriotic and political prejudices, and in all those pathways leading to perfection which he points out so clearly and beautifully.
In 'Abdu'l-Bahá's teaching, we cannot separate religion from life-as soon as that is done religion becomes a theology.  True religion is the foundation of perfect government, but this religion is the feeling of the heart, not an established hierarchy.
Speaking of the enjoyment of the animal world in this remarkable essay, 'Abdu'l-Bahá goes on:  "Such then is the happiness of the animal world.  But the happiness of the human world comes from the virtues of the world of humanity, which enjoyment the animals know not of.  That comes from the extension of the range of vision, the excellencies of the world of humanity; the love of God, the knowledge of God, equality between the people, justice and equity and ideal communication between hearts."
While in the United States in 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá foretold the outbreak of the great war in 1914, and said it would be followed by the formation of a world council, to which all countries would send delegates, with power to settle international difficulties, which would result in a permanent peace.  He said the twentieth century is the century of federation and that all the world would become united in a bond so close that war would be impossible, governments and laws would be changed everywhere for the betterment of humanity, poverty would be eliminated, and justice would reign in human affairs more completely than had ever been possible in previous times.
He seemed to have perfect faith in the ability of the United States to maintain peace in the period of the terrible war which was imminent, and said it was her destiny to be "the peacemaker of the world", and that she would be the first of the great nations to establish ideal social conditions.  He revealed a number of most beautiful prayers for this commonwealth, of which the following is one:
"O God, let this American Democracy become glorious in spiritual degrees, even as it has aspired to material degrees,-and render this great government victorious, confirm this revered nation to hoist the standard of the oneness of humanity, promulgate the Most Great Peace, to become thereby most glorious and praiseworthy among all the nations of the world."
The conclusion of the article in the Asiatic Quarterly contains a glorious promise for the future of humanity, which gives us hope that in the coming time we shall be able to incorporate, into our material civilization, those elements which will make it representative of the divine teaching we have received and of that love which will fully drive out injustice:
"In this age his holiness Bahá'u'lláh has breathed the holy spirit into the dead body of the world; consequently every weak soul is strengthened by these fresh divine out-breathings-every poor man will become rich, every darkened soul will become illumined, every ignorant one will become wise, because the confirmations of the holy spirit are descending like torrents.  A new era of divine consciousness is upon us.  The world of humanity is going through a process of transformation.  A new race is being developed.  The thoughts of human brotherhood are permeating all regions.  New ideals are stirring the depths of hearts and a new spirit of universal consciousness is being profoundly felt by all men."
Mary Hanford Ford.


VIII:1, 21 March 1917
page 9
"Now, is the beginning of a cycle of reality"
O ye children of the Kingdom!
It is New Year;1 that is to say, the rounding of the cycle of the year.  A year is the expression of a cycle (of the sun); but now is the beginning of a cycle of Reality, a New Cycle, a New Age, a New Century, a New Time and a New Year.  Therefore it is very blessed.
I wish this blessing to appear and become manifest in the faces and characteristics of the believers, so that they, too, may become a new people, and having found new life and been baptized with fire and spirit, may make the world a new world, to the end that the old ideas depart and new thoughts come; old garments be cast aside and new garments put on; ancient politics whose foundation is war be discarded and modern politics founded on peace raise the standards of victory; the new star shine and gleam and the new sun illumine and radiate; new flowers bloom; the new bounty descend; the new tree give forth new fruit; the new voice become raised and this new sound reach the ears, that the new will follow the new, and all the old furnishings and adornments be cast aside and new decorations put in their places.
I desire for you that you will have this great assistance and partake of this great bounty, and that in spirit and heart you will strive and endeavour until the world of war become the world of peace; the world of darkness the world of light; satanic conduct be turned into heavenly behaviour; the ruined places become built up; the sword be turned into the olive branch; the flash of hatred become the flame of the love of God and the noise of the gun the voice of the kingdom:  the soldiers of death the soldiers of life; all the nations of the world one nation; all races as one race; and all national anthems harmonized into one melody.
Then this material realm will be paradise, the earth heaven and the world of Satan become the world of angels.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
This is a new cycle of human power.  All the horizons of the world are luminous.  The world will become even as a garden and a paradise.  It is the hour of unity between the sons of men, and the drawing together of all races and all classes.-'Abdu'l-Bahá


VIII:2, 9 April 1917
page 17
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16; and Chapter II appeared in issues VII:18 & 19.]
CHAPTER III
Some practical applications of the spiritual life
Man must live in contentment with the conditions of his time.  He must not make himself the slave of any habit.  He must eat a piece of stale bread with the same relish and enjoyment as the most sumptuous dinner.  Contentment is real wealth.  If one develops within himself the quality of contentment he will become independent.  Contentment is the creator of happiness.  When one is contented he does not care either for riches or poverty.  He lives above the influence of them and is indifferent to them.  When we were in Baghdád often with one pound of meat we served dinner to fifteen or twenty people.  We cooked with it Persian stew and filled the pot with water so everyone could have a bowl of thin soup.  Notwithstanding this we were all very happy and thought that ours was the most delicious dinner.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 October 1913.
__________
How complex is the life of the present age and how much more complex we are making it daily!  The needs of humanity seem never to come to an end.  The more men accumulate the more they want.  There is only one way of freedom and that is by shutting one's eyes and heart to all these things which distract the mind.  The Arab of the desert teaches us a great lesson in the simple life.  Living as he does in the waste Sahara he lacks all the means of life except a crude tent, a rug or mat, a caldron, a sword hanging to the inside pole of the tent and a javelin tied to the outside pole.  This is all his furniture.  Then, if he is wealthy he has a mare, or a horse, a few camels and maybe adjoining his tent a palm grove.  It never occurs to his mind that there is anything else in this world.  He is happy and has no worries.  His food consists of a bowl of milk and a few dates and he may well wonder at the city man, how he can digest all the different kind of dishes with their flavours and spices.  His
page 18
thought is peaceful and serene, contrary to the city people who are always haunted by the nightmare of livelihood.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 21 September 1913.
__________
Economy is the foundation of human prosperity.  The spendthrift is always in trouble.  Prodigality on the part of any person is an unpardonable sin.  The fewer the habits, the better for the man.  It is a divine virtue to be satisfied with very few things.  Contentment is the antidote for all the social diseases.  We must live an independent life.  We must never live on others like a parasitic plant.  Every person must have a profession, whether it be literary or manual, and must live a clean, manly, honest life, an example of purity to be imitated by others.  Contentment is the master-key to all success.  If the members of my family starve I will not ask money from the people.  It is more kingly to be satisfied with a crust of stale bread than to enjoy a good dinner composed of many delicious dishes the money for which comes out of the pockets of others.
... A Bahá'í must be satisfied.  There was a time that I lived on five cents a day and I was then much happier than I am now.  The Persian Bahá'ís often live in the utmost poverty and want, yet they never complain nor ask for money from any one.  Begging they consider to be below their spiritual station.  A man who is the beneficiary of the treasury of the Kingdom is not poor.  There have been some rich Bahá'ís in Persia whose properties were entirely confiscated.  Being thus reduced to utter destitution they went out cheerfully to work and in their turn spent all they made for the maintenance of the poorer Bahá'í families.  Love, yea, love must be demonstrated through deeds.  Love has never been a passive verb, a figure of speech; it has always been an active verb, an ideal reality.  The sign of true faith is the service of the believers of God and service must always manifest itself in loving deeds and actions. ...
A small business with a steady income is better than the wild, helter-skelter speculations of the financiers.
The mind of a contented person is always peaceful and his heart is at rest.  He is like a monarch ruling over the whole world.  How happily such a man helps himself to his frugal meals.  How joyfully he takes his walks and how peacefully he sleeps!
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 24 August 1914.
__________
At the table on board the Cedric 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke about simple diet-how much better it is for one's constitution to eat but one or two courses.  One of the American Bahá'ís asked him whether he would not prescribe a simple regime of diet for the believers, upon his arrival in America.  He laughed heartily and said:  "We do not interfere with their material food, but we shall give them a simple diet of spiritual food.  This is our work."
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 20 July 1913.
__________
The life of the Arabs in the interior is most simple.  Their principal food consists of the milk of the camel and a few dates.  These Arabs do not like the atmosphere of the city.  They revel in the expansiveness of the desert.  The other day a few of the Bedouin women taunted our women because they are living in the town, while the Bedouin women were happy to breathe the fresh air of the desert.  When, years ago, I travelled from 'Akká to Tiberias, in our caravan there was a beautiful Bedouin woman riding on a camel.  She was listless and thoughtful.  In the same caravan there was a young Christian who was struck with the beauty of this Arab girl and her dark eyes.  After some futile attempts he succeeded in establish-
page 19
ing himself in her favour.  As I was near I could hear their conversation.  He was telling her:
"Thou art so beautiful!  Why dost thou not come to the city"
"Why?"
"O, thou wilt be married to a rich man!"
"What will he do for me?
"He will build for thee a lovely house, thou wilt be served as a queen; servants and maids will wait on thee; thou wilt walk through green gardens, thou wilt sleep on soft beds instead of sand; thy husband will buy for thee many precious jewels with which thou wilt decorate thy body; he will surround thee with wonderful objects the like of which thou hast never seen even in thy dreams!"
The girl straightened herself on her camel and looked at the youth with pity and contempt in her whole demeanour.
"I have my beloved desert, vast, broad, and immeasurable," she said.  "What do I want with your cave-like, cage-like and box-like houses.  There the air is stuffy.  Here the whole expanse of the Sahara is our avenues and boulevards.  Here is my home-the palace of immensity, the residence of God's own children.  Fie upon your town and your civilization and your snobbish manners!  I hate them!  I cannot bear to look at them!  They are all cheap tricks sanctioned by your so-called society.  You come abroad to display your crafty etiquette of mock modesty and respectability, while in reality you are physically and morally corrupt, afflicted with loathsome diseases.  Away from me!  Let me stay where I am!  My home is the Sahara, my couch is the soft sand, my decorations are God's virtues, my lamps by night the moon and stars."
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 5 May 1914.
__________
Wealth becomes the cause of heedlessness to many souls with the exception of those who are believers in God and read the verses of God.  For this reason his holiness Christ hath said:  "It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven."  But blessed is the rich man whose wealth and opulence do not prevent him from turning his face toward God and whose heart is not attached to his possessions.  Such a rich man is the light of the world.
Today Baron Rothschild came to Haifa.  He is one of the wealthiest men of Europe.  He is much interested in the Jewish colonization of Palestine and is devoting much of his time and attention to this problem.  Now he has gone to Tiberias.  He is busy all the time.  He could not stay longer than one hour.
All the people are toiling and labouring to attain to the station of a rich man.  Life to many rich men is nothing but a heavy burden.  They are "wood carriers".  Instead of a blessing wealth becomes a great calamity to them.  The supervision of their colossal fortunes and their proper financial administration becomes the sole object of their lives.  Day and night, asleep and awake, they think and work to make their piles larger and that of others smaller till finally they become mere money machines devoid of any other feeling or of higher emotions, wild-eyed, always hungering for more.  Greed and selfishness become the dominant influences of their lives.  Grab, grab, grab; right and left they grab at everything.  In the mad rush and struggle for more lucre, for more worldly goods they walk over the bodies of the toilers and the children.  They become the embodiment of heartlessness and cruelty.  Pride and haughtiness lord it over them and they become mere tools in the hands of sordid, fiendish passion.
Wealth has a tempting and drawing quality.  It bewilders the sight of its charmed victims with showy appearances and draws them on and on to the edge of yawning chasms.  It makes a person self-centred, self-occupied, forgetful of God and of holy things.
On the other hand there are souls who
page 20
are the essence of existence; in their estimation wealth offers no attractions.  If the doors of the heavenly blessings are opened before their faces, if they become the possessors of the riches of all the world, if the mountains of the earth turn into diamonds, if the oceans of the globe change into gold ... their spiritual independence will undergo no change or alteration, their faith in God will increase, their mindfulness will augment, the heat of the fire of their love for true democracy and the education of mankind will burn away all barriers of ostentation and pride.  Their intense passion for God will wax greater day by day.  Such rich men are in reality the light-bearing stars of the heaven of mankind, because they have been tried and tested and have come out of the crucible as pure gold ... unalloyed and unadulterated.  With all the wealth of the world at their feet they are yet mindful of God and humanity, they spend their acquired riches for the dispelling of the darkness of ignorance and employ their treasures for the alleviation of the misery of the children of God.  The light of such rich men will never grow dim and the tree of their generosity will grow in size and stature, producing fruits in all seasons.  Their every deed will be as an example for succeeding generations.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 24 February 1914.
__________
Be not grieved on account of poverty for true wealth is surging and inundating like unto the ocean.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
"When I was in Paris one of the believers brought me a soft cushion and urged me to put it under my head.  I became accustomed to it and as there is none in this hotel my neck has pained me all these nights.  To be the slave of custom is the worst habit.  I will have none of it!  When I was young I often had a brick or a piece of rock as my pillow, and I slept soundly,"
Hájí Niaz said that he had a soft cushion with him and asked to be allowed to go out and bring it.  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:
"No, no!  I must get accustomed to my natural ways.  This would not do.  One must never accustom himself to any
page 21
thing the absence of which may disturb his comfort."
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 July 1913.
__________
I cannot understand why people insist on the fact that one cannot give up a thing once he is accustomed to it.  One can do it very easily if he makes up his mind fully, resolving to quit it forever.  It is all a matter of character and determination.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 August 1914.
__________
He ('Abdu'l-Bahá.) eulogized unreservedly the untiring activity and zeal of Ismá'íl Áqá (the gardener).
"Devotion to and love for one's vocation accomplishes miracles," he said.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 11 July 1914.
__________
Man must be tireless in his effort.  Once his effort is directed in the proper channel if he does not succeed today he will succeed tomorrow.  Effort in itself is one of the noblest traits of human character.  Devotion to one's calling, effort in its speedy execution, simplicity of spirit and steadfastness through all the ups and downs, these are the hallmarks of success.  A person characterized with these attributes will gather the fruits of his labours and will win the happiness of the kingdom.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 8 July 1914.
__________
This morning I (Mírzá Sohráb) called on him ('Abdu'l-Bahá) early and he spoke to me about the concentration of one's powers.  "Water flowing from one spring has more force and energy than if the same water is divided between eight springs," he said.  "Try always to concentrate your activities into one channel and let that one be the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.  Then you shall see how the confirmations of God will descend."
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 December 1912.
__________
Praise be to God that you have come into this desert and exalted the name of God.  The nomads are utterly destitute of the knowledge of God.  They live an animalistic life and all their thoughts are centred upon their cows, goats and crops.  When they come together they speak of nothing else save these things.  They know nothing else.  Nominally they are Muslims, but they are unaware of the ideals of Muhammad. ...  I am most pleased with you and am satisfied with your conduct.  I hope that you may become assisted and confirmed in the good pleasure of the Lord. ...  May your spiritual perception become keener, your attention to God more complete and your spirituality an example for others.  When you are ploughing the ground or sowing the seeds or reaping the harvest let all your thoughts and subconscious thinking be of God.  Your hands and feet will be working but your heart must be attached to the Almighty.  The body of man is created for this world but his heart is made for the habitation of the Holy Spirit.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 May 1914.
__________
Cleanliness and sanctity in all conditions are characteristics of pure beings and necessities of free souls.
The primary perfection consists in cleanliness and sanctity and in purity from every defect.  When man in all conditions is pure and immaculate he will become a centre for the reflection of the manifest light.  In all man's actions and conduct there must first be purity, then beauty and independence.  The channel must be cleansed before it can be filled with sweet water.  The pure nostrils in-
page 23
hale the perfumes of the rose garden of bounty, the pure heart becomes the mirror of the beauty of truth.  This is why in the heavenly books the divine counsels and commands have been compared to water.  So, in the Qur'án it is said:  "And we have caused a pure water to descend from heaven"; and in the Gospel, "Except a man has received the baptism of water and of the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God."  Then it is evident that the divine teachings are the heavenly grace and the showers of the mercy of God which purify the hearts of men.
The meaning is in all conditions cleanliness and sanctity, purity and delicacy exalt humanity and make the contingent beings progress.
Even when applied to physical things delicacy causes the attainment of spirituality as it is established in the Holy Scriptures.
External cleanliness although it is but a physical thing has great influence upon spirituality.  For example, although sound is but the vibration of the air which affects the tympanum of the ear and although vibrations of the air are but an accident among the accidents which depend upon the air, deeply consider how the marvellous notes of a charming song influence the spirits!  A wonderful song gives wings to the spirit and fills the heart with exaltation.
I return to the subject that the fact of having a pure and spotless body likewise exercises an influence upon the spirit of man.  Now see how much purity is approved in the court of God that it should be especially mentioned in the holy books of the prophets!  So the holy books forbid the eating of any unclean things or the use of anything which is not pure.  Certain prohibitions are absolute and imperative for all; he who commits that which is forbidden is detested by God and is excluded from the number of the elect.  This applies to the things forbidden by an absolute prohibition, the perpetration of which is a grave sin; they are so vile that even to mention them is shameful.  There are other forbidden things which do not cause an immediate evil and whose pernicious effect is only gradually produced.  They are also abhorred, blamed and rejected by God but their prohibition is not recorded in an absolute way though cleanliness and sanctity, spotlessness and purity, the preservation of health and independence are required by these interdictions.
One of these last prohibitions is the smoking of tobacco which is unclean, malodorous, disagreeable and vulgar and of which the gradual harmfulness is universally recognized.  All clever physicians have judged and have also shown by experiment that one of the constituents of tobacco is a mortal poison and that smokers are exposed to different indispositions and maladies.
I wish to say that, in the sight of God, the smoking of tobacco is a thing which is blamed and condemned, very unclean and the result is by degrees injurious.  Besides it is a cause of expense and of loss of time and it is a harmful habit.  So, for those who are firm in the Covenant it is a thing discountenanced by the reason and by tradition, the renouncement of which giveth gradual repose and tranquillity,
page 24
permitteth one to have stainless hands and a clean mouth and hair which is not pervaded by a bad odour. ...
As to the question of opium, disgusting and execrating, I resign myself to God for its punishment.  The formal text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas forbids and reproves it and, according to reason, its use leads to madness.  Experience has shown that he who gives himself up to it is completely excluded from the world of humanity. ...  Happy is he who never mentions the word opium! ...
O friends of God, experience has shown how much the renouncing of tobacco, wine and opium gives health, strength and intellectual enjoyment, penetration of judgement and physical vigour.  There exists today a tribe, the Druses, which refrains and abstains from tobacco, alcohol and opium and it completely excels all others in power, in bravery, in health, beauty and grace.  A single one of these men can withstand ten men of other tribes and this has been universally proved.  That is to say, generally, the individuals of this tribe are superior to the individuals of the other tribes.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 581-585.
__________
Profitless discussions fatigue and weary a person.  People who call on me almost every day carry on a stream of profitless, unspiritual talk and I must listen to them with patience.  We are commanded to associate with all the people.  Today three persons called and they talked for one hour without any definite result.
Man's speech is the revealer of his heart.  In whatever world the heart travels, man's conversation will revolve
page 25
around that centre.  From his words you can understand in what world he is travelling, whether he is looking upward toward the realm of light or downward to the nether world, whether he is mindful or unaware, whether he is awake or asleep, whether he is alive or dead.  For this reason his holiness 'Alí says:  "Man is hidden behind his tongue.  Out of the abundance of his heart does man speak."
There are persons with whom you associate and converse whose utterances are life-imparting, joy-giving.  The withered and faded are refreshed, the joyless become happy, the extinct become enkindled and the lifeless are quickened with the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  The one drowned in the sea of hesitation and doubt is saved by the life-boat of certainty and assurance; the one attached to this material world becomes severed and the one steeped in blameworthy deeds is adorned with praiseworthy attributes.  On the other hand there are some persons whose very respiration extinguishes the light of faith; whose conversation weakens firmness and steadfastness in the Cause of God; whose company diverts one's attention from the kingdom of Abhá.
The souls who are rejoiced with the glad tidings of God, attracted to the fragrances of holiness, severed from aught else save God, who are commemorating the name of God are withdrawn from the world of darkness their thought permeated through and through with spiritual vibrations and their messages consisting of divine advices and exhortations; such souls are the manifestors of God's mercy, the educators of nations and the vivifiers of the world of humanity.  They are guardian angels, the cause of human progress and the spiritual guides of the wandering children of men.  Glory be unto them!
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 July 1914.
__________
If a person reads The Hidden Words, The Ishráqát, Tajallíyát, The Glad Tidings, The Words of Wisdom and The Tarázát and lives in accord with one of these divine advices he shall reach to the station of perfection, he will become the centre of merciful susceptibilities, the dawning-place of human virtues and the rays of the kingdom will become manifest from his face and character.
O ye friends of God!  These advices and exhortations of the Blessed Perfection are revealed from the Supreme Pen in order to be considered as guides for actions and not to be read only.  There are many people who read these tablets, praise their contents-but they do not live according to one of these words.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from tablet to the Boston Assembly of Bahá'ís; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 July 1914.
__________
Trustworthiness is the most brilliant jewel in the diadem which crowns man's heavenly attributes.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 December 1912.
__________
The best capital and the most profitable business is honesty in all things.  Do thou continue to be honest in thy dealings for one month.  Thou wilt see in the end that thou art honoured and respected by all thy customers, and not considering thy spiritual welfare, thy material prosperity will be secured.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 October 1914.
__________
Question:  "Does the Bahá'í prohibition of gambling and lotteries forbid games of every description?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "No, some games are innocent, and if pursued for pastime there is no harm.  But there is danger that pastime may degenerate into waste of time.  Waste of time is not ac-
page 26
ceptable in the Cause of God.  But recreation which may improve the bodily powers, as exercise, is desirable."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  A Heavenly Vista, p. 9.
__________
Endeavour and make an effort that certain souls may be trained, of whom his holiness Christ said:  "Ye shall know the tree by its fruits."  That is to say, every soul is known by (his) conduct, manners, words and deeds.  Therefore, we must strive with life and heart that, day by day, our deeds may be better, our conduct more beautiful and our forbearance greater.  That is, to cultivate love for all the world, to attain beatific character.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 306.
__________
Ask thou of God that thou mayest attain to the age of maturity so that thou mayest recognize the beauty and ugliness o£ deeds and actions.
Bahá'u'lláh from the Tablet to the Sultán of Turkey.
__________
Chastity and purity of life are the two divine standards of the spiritual and moral law.  The greater the aim of man the nobler his purpose.  A man must ever be thoughtful of others and be polite and courteous toward his fellow-beings.  This will win for him the good pleasure of the Lord and the satisfaction of the general public.  One's sitting and rising, speech and conversation, social intercourse and communication should be based upon a firm foundation and be conducive to the glory of the world of humanity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 4 September 1913.
__________
Moderation is necessary in all affairs.  Man must take a lesson from divine actions and deeds for God suffers a tree to grow a long time before it attains to perfection.  He is able to make a tree grow to fruition in an instant, but wisdom requires a gradual development.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from tablet to an American believer; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 May 1914.
page 27
__________
Be not grieved or sorrowful that no great wealth or property has been bestowed upon you.  Look at the birds!  The first thing in the morning they are thirsty and hungry.  They go to the spring and a few drops quench their thirst; then they pick up a few seeds and are perfectly satisfied and sit upon the branches and sing the praises of God.  I hope you, too, will be satisfied.
Christ says that we are like the birds.  The birds have habits; one is that they are satisfied with a few grains.  They have neither property nor possessions, and they are most of the time on the branches of the trees singing their beautiful melodies.  Now you should be satisfied with a few worldly things and spend most of the time in spreading the truths of the Word of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, Flowers From the Rose-Garden of Acca, p. 29.
__________
The length and shortness of life is not considered important.  Whether man lives a few years or a hundred years, the purpose of his life is to achieve some definite results.  If the tree of his life does not yield those luscious fruits, the purpose of his existence has not been accomplished even if he has lived many, many years.  But if he has lived only a few years and the tree of his life has attained to fruition, he has obtained spiritual success.  Consequently the duration of life is a conditional matter subject to the will of God.  For example, this stone has existed 10,000 or 20,000 or 30,000 years but it has not advanced beyond the mineral kingdom.  It has not achieved its final result.  Again a merchant goes to his office every day in the year; he plans commercial enterprises, undertakes vast schemes, organizes large companies but at the end of the year he has not gained any profit.  On the other hand another merchant through one stroke of good luck gains large profits in one day.  Now the former merchant, although he worked harder all through the year, did not achieve any success, while the latter although he worked only one day yet the outcome of his activity was prosperous.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 11 October 1914.
page 28
__________
The religion of God reforms the moral side of the life of mankind.  It is the spreader of the virtues of the world of humanity.  It is the founder of divine perfections in the hearts of men.  It is nearness to God.  It is the cause of attraction and enkindlement with the fire of the love of God.  It is conducive to the illumination of human consciousness.
All the prophets are sent by God for the guidance of the people, for the enlightenment of the minds of the inhabitants of the earth and for the promotion of the Word of Truth.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 March 1914.


VIII:3, 28 April 1917
page 37
"China is the country of the future"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 3 April 1917.
China, China, China, China-ward the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh must march!  Where is that holy, sanctified Bahá'í to become the teacher of China!  China has most great capability.  The Chinese people are most simple-hearted and truth-seeking.  The Bahá'í teacher of the Chinese people must first be imbued with their spirit, know their sacred literature, study their national customs and speak to them from their own standpoint, and their own terminologies.  He must entertain no thought of his own, but ever think of their spiritual welfare.  In China one can teach many souls and train and educate divine personages, each one of whom may become a bright candle of the world of humanity.  Truly, I say they are free from any deceit and hypocrisies and are prompted with ideal motives.
Had I been feeling well, I would have taken a journey to China myself!  China is the country of the future.  I hope the right kind of teacher will be inspired to go to that vast empire to lay the foundation of the Kingdom of God, to promote the principles of divine civilization, to unfurl the banner of the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh and to invite the people to the banquet of the Lord!
For the last twenty years I have repeatedly emphasized the matter of spreading the Cause of God.  In every city there must be organized assemblies of teaching-classes to teach the young how to teach the Cause and prepare them for this most important service.
Every Bahá'í must acquire the lessons of teaching.  This will yield results.  No other service is as important as this.  This service of the promotion of the revelation of Bahá'u'lláh is the most confirmed service.  Every time one service holds the most supreme importance.
There is one season to harrow the ground, another season to scatter the seeds, still another season to irrigate the fields and still another to harvest the crop.  We must attend to these various kinds of activities in their proper seasons in order to become successful.  Now is the time of seed-sowing, but it seems to me some of the believers are thinking about crop-getting.  This will give them no results.  Whosoever is thinking of any other thing, is wasting his time.
The promotion of the principles of Bahá'u'lláh is the most dominant issue before the believers of God.


VIII:4, 17 May 1917
page 41
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16; Chapter II appeared in issues VII:18 & 19; and Chapter III appeared in issue VIII:2.]
CHAPTER IV
Prayer
There is nothing sweeter in the world of existence than prayer.
Man must live in a state of prayer.  The most blessed condition is the condition of prayer and supplication.  Prayer is conversation with God.  The greatest attainment or the sweetest state is none other than conversation with God.  It creates spirituality, creates mindfulness and celestial feelings, begets new attractions of the Kingdom and engenders the susceptibilities of the higher intelligence.  The highest attribute given to his holiness Moses is the following verse:  "God carried along a conversation with Moses."
What is prayer?  It is conversation with God.  While man prays he sees himself in the presence, of God.  If he concentrates his attention he will surely at the time of prayer realize that he is conversing with God.  Often at night I do not sleep, and the thoughts of this world weigh heavily on my mind.  I toss uneasily in my bed.  Then in the darkness of the night I get up and pray -converse with God.  It is most sweet and uplifting.
Prayer and supplication are so effective that they inspire one's heart for the whole day with high ideals and supreme sanctity and calmness.  One's heart must be sensitive to the music of prayer.  He must feel the effect of prayer.  He must not be like an organ from which softest notes stream forth without having consciousness of sensation in itself.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 15 March 1914.
__________
Prayer and supplication are two wings whereby man soars toward the heavenly mansion of the True One.  However, verbal repetition of prayer does not suffice.  One must live in a continual attitude of prayer.  When man is spiritually free his mind becomes the altar of prayer and his heart the sanctuary of prayer.  Then the meaning of
page 42
the verse, "We will lift up from before his eyes the veil", will become fulfilled in him.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 June 1914.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá said we should speak in the language of heaven-in the language of the spirit-for there is a language of the spirit and heart.  It is as different from our language as our own language is different from that of the animals, who express themselves only by cries and sounds.
When we pray to God a feeling fills our hearts.  This is the language of the spirit which speaks to God.
When in prayer we are freed from all outward things and turn to God, then it is as if in our hearts we heard the voice of God.  Without words we speak, we communicate, we converse with God and hear the answer.  It is said that Moses in the wilderness heard the voice of God.  But that wilderness, that holy land was his own heart.  All of us when we attain to a true spiritual condition can hear the voice of God speaking to us in that wilderness.  We must strive to attain to that condition by being separated from all things and from the people of the world and by turning to God alone.  It will take some effort on the part of man to attain to that condition but he must work for it, strive for it.  We can attain to it by thinking and caring less for material things and more for the spiritual.  The further we go from the one, the nearer we are to the other-the choice is ours!
Our spiritual perception, our inward sight must be opened so that we can see the signs and traces of God's spirit in everything.  Everything can reflect to us the light of the spirit.
'Abdu'l-Bahá; extract from a talk given to Miss Laura Barney.
__________
When asked if prayer was necessary since presumably God knows the wishes of all our hearts 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"If one friend feels love for another he will wish to say so.  Though he knows that the friend is aware that he loves him, he will still wish to say so.  If there is anyone that you love do you not seek an opportunity to speak with him, to speak lovingly with him, to bring him gifts, to write him letters?  If you do not feel such a desire it would be that you did not love your friend.  God knows the wishes of all hearts.  But the impulse to pray is a natural one springing from man's love to God.
"If there be no love, if there be no pleasure or spiritual enjoyment in prayer, do not pray.  Prayer should spring from love, from the desire of the person to commune with God.  Just as the lover never ceases from wishing to communicate with the beloved so does the lover of God always wish for constant communication with the Deity.
"Prayer need not be in words, but in thought and attitude.  But if this love and this desire are lacking it is useless to try to force them.  Words without love mean nothing.  If a person talks to you as an unpleasant duty with no love or pleasure in his meeting with you, do you wish to converse with him?  Efforts should first be made to make attachment to God."
When asked how this attachment is to be made, how the love of God is to be obtained, since there are many people in the world who admit the existence of a Deity but without any emotion, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"Knowledge is love.  Study, listen to exhortations, think, try to understand the wisdom and greatness of God. ...  The soil must be fertilized before the seed be sown."
'Abdu'l-Bahá from an article in The Fortnightly Review, June 1911, by Miss E. S. Stevens.
__________
Man becomes like a stone unless he continually supplicates to God.  The
page 43
heart of man is like a mirror which is covered with dust and to cleanse it one must continually pray to God that it may become clean.  The act of supplication is the polish which erases all worldly desires.  The delight of supplicating and entreating before God cuts one's heart from the world.  When the taste of man is nourished by honey he never likes to taste any other sweetmeat.  Therefore, prayer is a key by which the doors of the kingdom are opened.  There are many subjects which are difficult for man to solve.  But during prayer and supplication they are unveiled and there is nothing that man cannot find out.  Muhammad said:  "Prayer is a ladder by which every one can ascend to heaven."  If one's heart is cut from the world his prayer is the ascension to heaven.
In the highest prayer men pray only for the love of God, not because they fear him or hell or hope for bounty or heaven.  Thus the souls in whose hearts the fire of love is enkindled are attracted by supplication.  True supplication to God must therefore be actuated by love to God only. ...  When a man falls in love with a human being it is impossible for him to keep from mentioning the name of his beloved.  How much more difficult is it to keep from mentioning the name of God when one has come to love him.  One can pray for the dead and by so doing their spiritual condition will become better.  The spiritual man finds no delight in anything save in commemoration of God.  When one is confirmed his heart becomes rejoiced through the commemoration of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from notes of Miss Alma Albertson and other pilgrims, November and December, 1900.
__________
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!  Know thou that supplication and prayer is the Water of Life.  It is the cause of the vivification of existence and brings glad tidings and joy to the soul.
Show thou attention to this matter as far as thou canst and summon others to prayer and supplication.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from tablet to an American believer; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 14 December 1906.
__________
Question:  "What is prayer, attitude or word?"
Answer:  "Prayer is both attitude and word, it depends upon the soul-condition.  It is like a song, both words and music make the song.  Sometimes the melody will move us, sometimes the words."
'Abdu'l-Bahá, Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 15.
__________
The prayerful attitude is attained by two means.  Just as a man who is.  going to deliver a lecture prepares therefor and his preparation consists of certain meditations and notations, so the preparation for the prayerful attitude is detaching one's mind from all other thoughts save the thought of God at the time of prayer and then praying when the prayerful attitude shall be attained.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, A Heavenly Feast, p. 19.
__________
Supplication to God at morn and eve is conducive to the joy of hearts, and prayer causes spirituality and fragrance.  Thou shouldst necessarily continue therein. (p. 186.)
Neglect not praying and communing in the gloomy midnights and morn and eve and offer glory unto thy Lord, the Supreme. (p. 413.)
Know that nothing will benefit thee in this life save supplication and invocation unto God, service in his vineyard, and, with a heart full of love, to be in constant servitude unto him. (p. 98.)
Draw nigh unto God and persevere in communion with thy Lord so that the
page 44
fire of God's love may glow more luminously in the heart, its heat grow stronger and give warmth to that region and its sound reach the Supreme Concourse. (p. 639.)
Supplicate unto him and beseech in the middle of the night and at early morn just as a needy and captive one beseeches.  It is incumbent upon thee to turn unto the kingdom of God and to pray, supplicate and invoke during all times.  This is the means by which thy soul shall ascend upward to the apex of the gift of God. (p. 695.)
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas.
__________
As to thy question, "Why pray?  What is the wisdom thereof, for God has established everything and executes all affairs after the best order and he ordains everything according to a becoming measure and puts things in their places with the greatest propriety and perfection-therefore what is the wisdom in beseeching and supplicating and in stating one's wants and seeking help?"  Know thou, verily, it is becoming of a weak one to supplicate to the strong One and it behoveth a seeker of bounty to beseech the glorious, bountiful One.  When one supplicates to his Lord, turns to him and seeks bounty from his ocean this supplication is by itself a light to his heart, an illumination to his sight, a life to his soul and an exaltation to his being.
page 45
Therefore, during thy supplications to God and thy reciting "Thy name is my healing" consider how thine heart is cheered, thy soul delighted by the spirit of the love of God and thy mind attracted to the kingdom of God!  By these attractions one's ability and capacity increase.  When the vessel is widened the water increaseth and when the thirst grows the bounty of the cloud becomes agreeable to the taste of man.  This is the mystery of supplication and the wisdom of stating one's wants.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from Tablet to an American believer; translated by Dr 'Alí-Qulí Khán, October, 1908.
__________
Man is eternally in a state of communion and prayer with the source of all good.  The highest and most elevating state is the state of prayer.  Prayer is communion with God. ...  Its efficacy is conditional upon the freedom of the heart from extraneous suggestions and mundane thoughts.  The worshipper must pray with a detached spirit, unconditional surrender of the will, concentrated attention and a magnetic spiritual passion.  His innermost being must be stirred with the ethereal breeze of holiness.  If the mirror of his life is polished from the dross of all desires the heavenly pictures and star-like images of the kingdom of God will become fully reflected therein.  Then he will be given power to translate these celestial forms into his own daily life and the lives of many thousands.
Automatic, formalistic prayers which do not touch the core of the heart are of no avail.  How sweet, how delicious, how satisfying, how spiritual is prayer in the middle of the night!  While all the eyes are closed the eyes of the worshipper are wide open.  While all the ears are stopped the ears of the suppliant are attuned to the subtle music of God.  While the majority of the people are fast asleep the adorer of the Ideal Beloved is wakeful.  All around him there is a rare and delicate silence, deep, airy, ethereal silence, calm, magical and subtle-and there is the worshipper, communing with nature and the author of nature.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 3 September 1914.
__________
Question:  "How do saints become saints?"
Answer:  "Through prayer, supplication, purification of the heart and good wishes."
'Abdu'l-Bahá-answers to some questions asked by some American pilgrims to 'Akká, spring of 1907.  Mírzá Munír, translator.
page 46
__________
Christ said, "Go into thy chamber and shut the door, and pray to thy Father which is in heaven."  Why did he say this?  It is with the tongue that man expresses his feelings to another man.  But with the language of the heart man prays to God.  Though God is within the heart of man, is ever present in every place, yet man lifts up his eyes to heaven and prays as if God were there, seated upon a throne.  Surely this is pure superstition!  Why should he utter the words, "O heavenly Father?"  Why should it be necessary for him to repeat prayers aloud and with the tongue?  One reason for this is that if the heart alone is speaking the mind can be more easily disturbed.  But repeating the words so that the tongue and heart act together enables the mind to become concentrated.  Then the whole man is surrounded by the spirit of prayer and the act is more perfect.
Another reason is that by the outward signs of entering into his room and praying the attention of others is attracted and they begin to ask, "Why does he do this" and are aroused to enquire about the truth.
Man may say, "I can pray to God whenever I wish, when the feelings of my heart are drawn to God; when I am in the wilderness, when I am in the city, or wherever I may be.  Why should I go where others are gathered upon a special day, at a certain hour, to unite my prayers with theirs when I may not be in a frame of mind for praying"  To think in this way is useless imagination for where many are gathered together their force is greater.  Separate soldiers fighting alone and individually have not the force of a united army.  If all the soldiers in this spiritual war gather together then their united spiritual feelings help each other and their prayers become more acceptable.
A wise schoolmaster may send his scholars out to play or to practise gymnastics for an hour so that their minds and bodies may be refreshed and during the hour of the lesson they may learn it better.  If the teacher proves that his pupils are advancing no onlooker has a right to object to his system or to question his wisdom and say, "Why does he waste the boys' time?"  If a wise father plays with his children who has a right to say it is not good for them?  He calls them to come to him as the hen calls her chicks, he knows that they are little and must be coaxed along, coaxed along, because they are young and tiny.
page 47
For the time of Moses the law of "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth" was ordained.  It is very hard to see the wisdom of this, but the people then were in the wilderness and needed teaching.  Different teachings were needed for different people.  If you give the same teachings to all some might be retarded by them instead of helped.  Christ taught some things to his disciples which he commanded them not to tell the Pharisees.  It is not for the soldier to question the general's orders.  If he knows him to be the real general he must carry out and obey his orders exactly.  If the general orders that a certain place must be taken and held the soldiers might say, "Why risk so much by leaving this secure and safe position for a point which is the aim and target of the enemy?"  But the general knows that this is the important point which must be held at all costs.  The true doctor, the true teacher, the real captain must be obeyed.
If every man knew what was best for his health, if every man could teach himself, if every soldier knew how to fight by himself, if every passenger could sail the ship, what need would there be for the doctor, for the teacher, for the general or for the captain?  As he has not this wisdom he must first ascertain their truth and then follow their directions.  Until he does this he cannot advance.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from notes of Mrs L. A. C. Dreyfus-Barney.
__________
One of our friends was sitting silent.  'Abdu'l-Bahá asked her to speak.  "I would rather pray quietly in thy presence," she said.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Mayst thou ever be in a prayerful attitude.  In all the worlds of existence there is nothing more important than prayer.  Prayer confers spirituality upon the heart."
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 October 1913.
__________
Thou hast asked what shouldst thou do and what prayer shouldst thou offer in order to become informed of the mysteries of God.  Pray thou with an attracted heart and supplicate thou with a spirit stirred by the glad tidings of God.  Then the doors of the kingdom of mysteries shall be opened before thy face and thou shalt comprehend the realities of all things.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 July 1913.
__________
Asked if we are not able through love and faith to make those who have departed from this life hear of the Cause who had not heard of it while here, 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:
"Yes, surely sincere prayer always has its effect and it has a great influence in the other world.  We are never cut off from those who are there.  The real and genuine influence is not in this world but in that other."
'Abdu'l-Bahá from notes of Mrs Mary Hanford Ford, Paris, France, October, 1911.
__________
Supplication and prayer on behalf of others will surely be effective.  When hearts are united, when faces are turned towards the kingdom of Abhá, surely enlightenment will be the result.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from Tablet to Seattle Assembly of Bahá'ís; translated in Haifa, Syria, 14 August 1914.
__________
In answer to the question, "Why should one pray through Christ as the Christians do, or through another manifestation of God and why should we not pray to God direct?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"If we wish to pray we must have some object upon which to concentrate.  If we turn to God we must direct our hearts to a certain centre.  If man worships God otherwise than through his Manifestation he must first form a conception of God and that conception is
page 48
created by his own mind.  As the finite cannot comprehend the Infinite so God is not to be comprehended in this fashion.  That which man conceives with his own mind he comprehends.  That which he can comprehend is not God.  That conception of God which a man has is but a phantasm, an image, an imagination, an illusion.  There is no connection between such a conception and the Supreme Being.
"If a man wishes to know God he must find him in the perfect mirror; Christ or Bahá'u'lláh.  In either of these mirrors he will see reflected the Sun of Divinity.
"As we know the physical sun by its splendour, by its light and heat so we know God, by the spiritual sun, when he shines forth from the temple of Manifestation by his attributes of perfection, by the beauty of his qualities and by the splendour of his light.  The Manifestations of God are the focal centres of the world. ...
"The epitome of all worship is the worship of the attributes of Christ, not his personality."
'Abdu'l-Bahá, a talk given to Mr Percy Woodcock, 'Akká, Syria, 1909.
__________
Turn thy face sincerely toward God; be severed from all save God; be ablaze with the fire of the love of God; be purified and sanctified, and beseech and supplicate unto God.  Verily, he responds unto those who invoke him, is near unto those who pray unto him.  And he is thy companion in every loneliness, and befriends every exile.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from a Tablet to American believer; translated by Dr 'Alí-Qulí Khán, Boston, February, 1908.
__________
Regarding thy question about the morning prayer.  Both meanings are in eluded in the word dawn-the natural dawn, and the dawn of the kingdom.  When a soul rises in the morning from sleep before everything else he must commemorate the name of God in order that he may obtain spirituality and illumination.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from a Tablet to an American believer; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 5 March 1914, Mt. Carmel, Haifa.
__________
O God and assister of all! ...  Verily, thou art the hearer of prayers, and verily, thou art powerful in all things!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
The heavens of thy mercy and the oceans of thy bounty are so vast that thou hast never disappointed those who begged of thee nor refused those who willed to come to thee!
Bahá'u'lláh


VIII:5, 5 June 1917
page 49
"Teach the Cause!  This is a matter that succeeds most miraculously"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to pilgrims.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 30 January 1914.
Now that you are returning to your respective homes you must be like unto ignited candles and set aglow the hearts of all the believers; now like unto a company of tuneful birds you must sing every melody.  I have done my part, I have sung my songs and have played almost every tune.  Now it is your turn.  For awhile I must sit silent, ever straining my ears to hear your anthems of praise.  I love to listen to your spiritual symphonies and divine harmonies, ever flying upward and filling the world with the soothing music of peace and consolation.  God willing, you will fulfil my eager expectations.  O! I am sure you will not disappoint me.  The confirmations of the Kingdom shall descend upon you, and the Supreme reinforcement shall surround you.  Rest ye assured; let your hearts abide in peace.  I ever expect to receive cheering news from you.  May you become the cause of the happiness of the hearts of the believers.  May all the friends become glad, rejoiced and grateful through meeting you and write me that these pilgrims who passed through our cities were enkindled, attracted, eloquent and willing to serve their fellowmen!
In short, God willing, may every one of you, as you leave this Holy Land, become a herald of the Cause, a harbinger of the establishment of the Kingdom.
May each one of you shine upon each city through which you pass as a radiant star.  This is the Day wherein whomsoever arises to spread the Cause of God, the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse will assist him.  Today the magnet of spiritual confirmation is teaching the Cause.  Although the threshold of the Blessed Perfection was my heart, my spirit and the happiness of my soul, yet, notwithstanding this, I left everything and travelled around the world proclaiming at the top of my voice the glad tidings of the Kingdom of Abhá.  No affair today is as confirmed as that of the promulgation of the principles of this Cause.  As much as they can the believers of God must occupy their time in conveying the Message. ...
Teach the Cause; this is a matter that succeeds, succeeds most miraculously.  Praise be to God!  You are beneath the protection of the Blessed Perfection, you are environed by his bestowals.  What favour do you wish greater than this?  When a number of souls are beneath the protecting wings of an important personage they consider themselves very fortunate; now, praise be to God, you are beneath the protection and preservation of the Blessed Perfection.  Therefore, how great must be your happiness!  As you go out of this room dedicate your lives to teaching the
page 50
Cause; gird up the loins of endeavour and put forward extraordinary energy.
When a Cause is confirmed it is evident and manifest from its signs.  For example, we say this earth is confirmed.  Why?  Because, as a result of the downpour of rain and the shining of the sun it is covered with green plants and flowers.
Again I say, teach the Cause!  Do not tarry!  Fill the goblet of every seeker with the wine of the love of God! ...


VIII:5, 5 June 1917
page 50
Green Acre in 1917
Since last year's Pentecostal outpouring on the quiet hills by the Piscataqua, "The River of Light", the friends of Green Acre have been counting the days until they might return thereto in the summer of 1917.
During the past year Miss Sarah Farmer, the founder of Green Acre, has ascended into the Supreme Concourse.  A beautiful Bahá'í service was held at her home in South Eliot, on the occasion of her passing.  Her saintly and luminous spirit will rest over the conferences this summer even more gloriously than during last August for now she is free from the prison-house of the body.
May the new and mighty wave of spiritual power which has this past year swept the Bahá'í world rise and burst into such splendour at Green Acre this summer that it may illumine the entire continent.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has taken great joy in Green Acre and made radiant predictions for its future.  Among his first words upon his return to the city of 'Akká in Palestine from his world journey through Europe and America were these concerning Green Acre.
"There is a place in America," he said one evening when the friends had assembled to meet him, "called Green Acre.  It is customary during the months of summer for people of different creeds and religions to gather there and the leaders of various movements and thoughts to deliver lectures and addresses.  Thus they have combined most effectively education and recreation.  The significance and usefulness of this unique place lie in the fact that it offers a free and unrestricted platform to the citizens of every nation and the adherents of every religion.  Thus every subject is discussed with that full liberty of conscience which is enjoyed in the United States.
"The founder of these conferences wherein every nationality and religion is worthily represented, is Sarah J. Farmer.  To her is due all praise and commendation for having thus initiated this wonderful plan which must be carried out to its logical conclusion-a universal platform for all mankind, irrespective of race, religion or nationality.
"As the name, Green Acre, is similar to that of 'Akká, when I arrived there I was made very happy.  I spent one week in that green and delightful 'Akká.  They had a large meeting every evening at which many people gathered, and I spoke to them on spiritual subjects.  I met there many cultured and educated people.  It is a most beautiful country place.  Its water is pure, its air salubrious and its atmosphere is spiritual.  There are many pine woods; and under a cluster of fine old trees people gather to hear lectures.  Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, when in Green Acre, used to give some of his addresses under these pines, so they are known as the 'Persian pines'.  I went there one afternoon; many people had gathered, and I spoke on the Bahá'í teachings."
While sojourning in Paris, on his return from America en route to Palestine, 'Abdu'l-Bahá pictured to some friends interested in Green Acre, the ultimate ideals on which as a sure foundation its future should be built.
"In Green Acre you must concentrate your forces around the one all important
page 51
fact-the investigation of reality.  Expend all your thoughts on this-that the union of opinions and expressions may be obtained ....
"If the circle of the activities of Green Acre be expanded so that each year the leaders of every religion and thought may associate with each other with perfect love and amity there will be good results.
"The aim of those souls who deliver addresses or who take part in the discussions must be the investigation of reality and not the presentation of dogmas and unprofitable, antiquated theories.  The chief objects of Green Acre conferences must be the furtherance of universal peace, investigation of reality, brotherhood, tolerance, sympathy to all mankind, the cultivation of a better understanding between the nations of the world, the elimination of dogmas and superficialities, the illumination of the hearts with the light of truth, mutual assistance and co-operation, social service, the study of the fundamental principles of all the religions and their comparative co-ordination.  Green Acre must carry away this palm of victory ....
"Personal ambition must be thrown to the winds and all the available will-power directed towards the realization of the universal objects.  If you outline such a practical, universal, all-inclusive programme and then invite me I will come again to Green Acre.  Lay such a foundation that the influence of the confederation of religions and sects may permeate to all parts of the world from Green Acre; and Green Acre for the future ages and cycles may become the standard bearer of the oneness of the world of humanity.  I will pray for the fulfilment of this truth."
Early last winter the following tablet was received by a believer regarding the service of Green Acre, 'Abdu'l-Bahá's latest word about the "Green Acca" of America:
"O thou maid-servant of God!  Thy letter was received.  Thy desire to serve Green Acre is in reality a very important matter.  This name (Green Acre) must appear with all its significant meaning, that is Green Acre must become the reflection of the plain of 'Akká, and attain to the utmost verdancy, greenness and artistic beauty.  Its charms and wonder lie in this, that it may become the centre of the Bahá'ís and the cry of 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá' be raised from all its direction.  I hope that all thy aspirations may become fully realized.  Upon thee be greeting and praise."


VIII:5, 5 June 1917
page 51
"Plant thou a tree which may yield sweet fruits throughout all eternity"
A recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Maria P. Wilson, Malden, Massachusetts.
O thou my respected hostess!
The days that I was a guest in thy home are ever before my sight.  They then include happy days, for they passed away in joy.
Truly, I say, with all thy power thou didst serve us and displayed towards us the utmost kindness.  This service appeared through the sincerity of thine intention, thy love for humanity, and thy praiseworthy morals.  At present, also, thou art engaged day and night in the service of the Kingdom of God, and art occupied in the promotion of heavenly teachings.  Plant thou a tree which may yield sweet fruits throughout all eternity.  Scatter thou such pure seeds which may produce various crops in the future ages and cycles.  This is made possible through self-sacrifice in the path of God, and complete evanescence in the love of God-so that no trace of self, ego and desires be left behind; thus thou mayest consecrate thyself wholly and entirely to the heavenly Beloved.
Convey on my behalf to each and all the friends-men and women-my loving and yearning greetings.
Upon thee be greeting and praise.
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Haifa, Syria, 22 October 1916.


VIII:6, 24 June 1917
page 57
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16; Chapter II appeared in issues VII:18 & 19; Chapter III appeared in issue VIII:2; and Chapter IV appeared in issue VIII:4.]
CHAPTER V
Faith, Severance, Sacrifice
I say unto you that anyone who will
page 58
arise in the Cause of God, at this time shall be filled with the Spirit of God.  And God will send his hosts from heaven to help you and nothing shall be impossible to you if you have faith.  And now I give you, a commandment which shall be for a covenant, ... that ye have faith; that your faith be steadfast as a rock which no storms can move, which nothing can disturb, and that it endure through all things even to the end. ...  Be not shaken in your faith. ...  As ye have faith so shall your powers and blessings be.  This is the balance; this is the balance; this is the balance!
'Abdu'l-Bahá from An Early Pilgrimage by Mrs May Maxwell.
__________
The foundation of praiseworthy virtues is faith.  The greater the faith of man the more illumined his life.  Faith is a miracle; it has a wonder-working power.  Its spiritual influence refines the character, suffers man to become humble and meek, places in his heart the fear of God, prompts him to devote his time to humanitarian deeds, spiritualizes his nature, exalts his ideals and enkindles his lamp.  The greater the faith of man the more numerous will be his philanthropic actions.  Faith is like unto the trees, deeds are like unto the fruits.  Faith is like unto the lamp, deeds are like unto the light.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Address quoted in Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 March 1914.
__________
Question:  What is real faith?
Answer:  Faith outwardly means to believe in the message a Manifestation brings to the world and accept the fulfilment in him of that which the prophets have announced.  But in reality faith embodies three degrees:  to confess with the tongue; to believe in the heart; to show forth in our actions.  These three things are essential to true faith.  The important requirement is the love of God in the heart.  For instance, we say a lamp gives light.  In reality the oil which burns produces the illumination, but the lamp and the chimney are necessary before the light can express, itself.  The love of God is the light.  The tongue is the chimney or the medium by which that love finds expression.  It also protects the light.  Likewise the members of the body reflect the inner light by their actions.  So the tongue confesses in speech and the parts of the body confess in their actions the love of God within the soul of a true believer.  Thus it was that Peter confessed Christ by his tongue and his actions.  When the tongue and actions reflect the love of God the real qualities of man are revealed.  Christ said "You will know them by their fruits"; that is, by their deeds.  If a believer shows forth divine qualities we know that true faith is in his heart.  If we do not find evidence of these qualities, if he is selfish or wicked, he has not the true kind of faith.  Faith is mentioned in the Scriptures as the "second birth" or "everlasting life".  In this day true belief is the Spirit of God.  Many claim to possess true faith, but it is rare, and when it exists it cannot be destroyed.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 59.
__________
By our actions we reveal what is growing in the heart.  Actions are mirrors of the soul ...
Faith is not so much what we believe as what we carry out.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, pp. 11-12.
__________
Man must prove whatsoever he speaketh by deeds and actions.  If he claims faith he must live and do according to the teachings of the Kingdom of Abhá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet to two Chicago believers.
page 59
__________
Faith is the magnet which draws the confirmation of the Merciful One.  Service is the magnet which attracts the heavenly strength.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 62.
__________
Although a person of good deeds is acceptable at the threshold of the Almighty, yet it is first to know and then to do.  Although a blind man produces a most wonderful and exquisite art, yet he is deprived of seeing it.  See how most animals labour for man, draw loads and facilitate travel; yet as they are ignorant they do not receive any reward for this toil and labour.  The cloud rains; roses and hyacinths grow, the plains and meadows, the gardens and trees become green and blossom, yet they do not realize the results and outcome of their activities.  Therefore, they are not praised and commended, ...  This lamp is lighted, but as it has not a conscious knowledge of itself no one has become glad because of it.
Moreover, a soul of excellent deeds and good manners will undoubtedly advance, no matter from what horizon he beholds the light radiating.  Herein lies the difference.  By faith is meant first, conscious knowledge; second, the practice of good deeds.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 549.
__________
Praise be to God, you are firm in the Covenant and steadfast in the Testament.  Firmness and steadfastness are the greatest conditions of faith and assurance.  As long as the tree does not send its root to the bowels of the earth it will not become secure and established, neither will it grow and develop into full stature.  But if it is not firmly rooted it will be broken by the blowing of one strong wind.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 24 July 1914.
__________
There is no wonder in confessing the appearance of the Kingdom of God, but true wonder consists in good deeds, obedience to the commands and teachings of the True Lord, and firmness in this path, even when the storm is at its height.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet to American believer; received 5 January 1904.
__________
One of the requirements of faithfulness is that thou mayest sacrifice thyself and in the divine path, close thine eye to every pleasure and strive with all thy soul that thou mayest disappear and be
page 60
lost, like unto a drop, in the ocean of the love of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 552.
__________
The Manifestation of God is a perfect example of real obedience.  Like him we must sacrifice every thing, every plan, every longing and ideal must be given up completely to the will of God.  We must look to God for all we desire, all we wish to attain.  The will of God must work out its purpose in us.  Our human will must be laid down in sacrifice and love.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has given everything in sacrifice and obedience to the will of God. ...  All our soul-powers, our outward self, our inward self must be consecrated to God in service and sacrifice.  Even life must be given if necessary.  If we have not reached this station of nothingness we have not attained to real obedience to the will of God.  A pupil must submit entirely to the will of the teacher.  This is true sacrifice, true obedience.
Real obedience and real sacrifice are identical, they are absolute readiness to follow and perform whatever you are called upon to do in the Cause of God.  When you really love God you will be willing to sacrifice everything and submit yourself entirely to His will.  Consecrate yourself wholly to Him.  His will is everything.  His service is paramount.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 48.
__________
As to the fact that man must entirely forget himself.  By this is meant that he should arise in the mystery of sacrifice; and that is the disappearance of mortal sentiments and the extinction of blameable morals which constitute the temporal gloom, and not that the physical health should be changed into weakness and debility.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 244.
__________
Asceticism is not necessary.  A soul grows by the exercise of human virtues and the observance of human morals and by divine favour.  The extreme asceticism of the saints was superstition.  The monasticism of the Christian church was mistaken.  St. Paul was responsible for much of this because in one of his epistles he praises those who do not marry and prophesied that sects would arise which would not marry.  St. Paul disapproved of marriage.  But God did not give us good gifts that we should reject them.  He created all these blessings that His servants may bless Him.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from an article in Fortnightly Review, June, 1911, by Miss E. S. Stevens.
__________
In this day or dispensation asceticism is of the spiritual type, for spiritual asceticism is right and is productive of results.  On the one hand a man may attain virtues by the inherent force of his nature; on the other hand these virtues may be due to the weakness of his nature.  For instance, an infant is detached from the World.  That severance or detachment is due to its, weakness.  But a wise man having passed to the stage of maturity will likewise be detached from the world and care nothing for the world.  Severance at that stage is indicative of inherent strength of character.  A withered arm is incapable of stoning or striking anybody.  That harmlessness is not due to virtue, it is due to imperfection.  But if a person whose arm and hand are well and whole shall not strike, then it is a symptom of strength and virtue.  A man who is a mute and dumb cannot lie, but that lack of lying is an indication of his weakness, not of his perfection.  But he whose tongue speaketh and yet lieth not is verily mighty. ...  A dead man is harmless, no harm can come from him, but that is not eulogy.  But if he be alive and harmless that is eulogizing him.  Now we come to the subject.
By enduring ascetic hardships the
page 61
powers of nature will undergo dissolution which will result in great weakness whereby one is made incapable of doing anything.  He will not show any temper.  He will not do any evil.  He will not cause a riot; he is quiet.  He is wronged; he is like a lamb.  But this is due to weakness.  But he who has attained spiritual asceticism acquires these attributes by strength of character.  When a man by nature, that is to say, by some imperfection of nature, is incapable of committing uncommendable acts, that is nothing in his favour.  But if he by sheer force of will and spiritual training attains to a state of character which prevents him from doing such things, this is a great credit to him.  The insane man is entirely detached from all bonds and ties; he is absolutely free from all attachments.  But this is not a commendation to him.  But when the disciples of Christ, who were in a normal state of mind and body let go of everything in life, that is indeed commendable.  Physical asceticism will in the course of time cause absolute atrophy of the parts, resulting in the greatest weakness.  There will be no love of transgression, no attachment to this life, no covetousness, no aggressiveness, but all this is due to great weakness of powers.  But spiritual asceticism will help one to attain to such blossoming of powers as will enable him to make up his mind against the things that are not to be and will encourage him in the things to be.  In this dispensation there is no physical or material asceticism.  The spiritual are ascetics, and this asceticism is expressed by training souls and educating humanity in morals and in the acquisition of the qualities of the Kingdom.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Akka Lights; Notes of Mr and Mrs Joseph H. Hannen, February, 1909.
__________
"Fasting is a symbol.  Fasting signifies abstinence from lust.  Physical fasting is a symbol of that abstinence, and is a reminder; that is, just as a person abstains from physical appetites, he is to abstain from self-appetites and self-desires.  But mere abstention from food has no effect on the spirit.  It is a mere symbol, a reminder.  Otherwise, it is of no importance.  Fasting for this purpose does not mean entire abstinence from food.  The golden rule as to food is, do not take too much or too little.  Moderation is necessary.  There is a sect in India who practise extreme abstinence, and gradually reduce their food until they exist on almost nothing.  But their intelligence suffers.  A man is not fit to do service for God in brains or body if he is weakened by lack of food.  He cannot see clearly."
When told of American experiments whereby the mind was supposed to benefit personally by abstinence, 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "It is imagination. ...  To sum up, God knows better than all.  He has given us an appetite; therefore we should eat.  If the body be deprived of that which is necessary for it the mind suffers.  God asks of us according to our capacity.  If a man who has only sufficient strength to carry fifty kilos be burdened with a hundred kilos he will fall.  Moderation and common sense must be used."
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from an article by Miss E. S. Stevens in the Fortnightly Review, June, 1911.
__________
Well done!  Well done!  Thou hast desired the evanescence of thy will in the will of God. ... (p. 267.)
The reality of man is like unto a sea, and the Holy Power is like unto brilliant pearls.  Not until the sea moveth in waves doth it throw a shell of pearls upon the shore.  Therefore if thou wishest to become heavenly cut thy attention from the earth, that is, cease to attach thy heart unto this world and seek attachment to the Kingdom and turn unto God.  And when thou doest this thou wilt become the mercy of God and a gift of the Almighty. (p. 326.)
Man must become evanescent in God,
page 63
must forget his own selfish conditions in order that he may rise to the station of sacrifice.  This station should be attained to such a degree that if he sleeps it should not be for pleasure but to rest the body in order to work better, to speak better, to explain more beautifully, to serve the servants of God and to prove His truths.  When he remains awake he should seek to be attentive, serve the Cause of God and sacrifice his own stations for those of God.  When he attains to this station the confirmations of the Holy Spirit will surely reach him and man with this power can withstand all who inhabit the earth. (p. 460.)
No one will obtain this great favour save he who cuts himself from this world, being attracted by the love of God; who is dead to the desires and appetites of self, sincere to God in all things and meek, humble, imploring, pleading and lowly before God. (p. 5.)
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas.
__________
By being severed from the world I do not mean holding in contempt the things of the world, for civilization and education are the means of progress.  I mean that one must not attach his heart to the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Table Talks with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 23.
__________
We must not be attached to anything in the world.  It is not worth one thought.  We must not desire for those we love that they should be captivated by the attachments of this world.  Nay, rather, we should desire for them eternal things, the things of the Kingdom.  We
page 64
should seek to free ourselves from all attachments.  The things of this world are like the waves of the sea.  It is impossible that they should endure.  In comparison, the things of the Kingdom are like rocks, firm and enduring.
If one is attached to the demands of the human body he will never be at rest, for the body is constantly demanding change.  This tree growing before the window, it is impossible that it should not die, no matter how it is tended and how well it is watered.  How foolish to spend one's time and energy on that which can not endure.  If one is turned toward heavenly things he will become like a rock.  But if his heart be attached to anything in this world it will become subject to change.  Attachments are like ropes which drag us to the earth when we try to fly.  To be detached is to be free, is to be flying in a new ether, is to be light, is to be joyous-and a Bahá'í should be joyous.  He should attain to such a station of joy that the world will enquire as to his secret.  If he be entirely detached and emptied of self he will be enabled to start in a cold heart a great fire.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Quoted from a letter written by Miss Juliet Thompson by Mrs Isabel Fraser, Hamleh, 24 September 1913.
__________
The mystery of sacrifice is a most great subject and is inexhaustible.  Briefly it is as follows:  The moth is a sacrifice to the candle.  The spring of water is a sacrifice to the thirsty one.  The sincere lover is a sacrifice to the loved one and the longing one is a sacrifice to the beloved.  One must wholly forget himself, must become a wanderer (in the Abode of the Beloved).  He must seek the good pleasure of the True One, desire the face of the True One, and walk in the path of the True One; he must become intoxicated with His cup, resigned in His hand and close his eyes to life and living in order that he may shine like unto the light of truth from the horizon of Eternity.  This is the first station of sacrifice.
The second station of sacrifice is as follows:  Man must become severed from the human world; be delivered from the darkness of this world; the illumination of mercifulness must shine and radiate in him, the nether world become as non-existent and the Kingdom become manifest.  He must become like iron thrown within the furnace of fire.  The qualities of iron such as blackness, coldness and solidity which belong to the earth disappear and vanish while the characteristics of fire such as redness, glowing and heat which belong to the Kingdom become apparent and visible.  Therefore, iron hath sacrificed its qualities and grades to the fire, acquiring the virtues of that element.
Likewise, when souls are released from the fetters of the world, the imperfections of mankind and animalistic darkness and have stepped into the realm of detachment, have partaken from the out-pouring of the Placeless and have acquired lordly perfection, they are the "ransomed ones" of the Sun of Truth, who are hastening to the altar of heart and soul.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 354.
page 65
__________
The greatest sacrifice is to forget one's self entirely, to sacrifice everything, as did Christ.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Daily Lessons, p. 21.  (Read all of this chapter.)
__________
Behold a candle how it gives its light.  It weeps its life away, drop by drop, in order to give forth its flame of light.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from An Early Pilgrimage by Mrs May Maxwell.
__________
I wish for the happiness and prosperity of the believers even in this material world, but they must not be attracted by it or attached to it.  Extreme wealth or utter poverty should be equal to them.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Table Talks with Abdul-Baha Abbas, p. 10.
__________
Concentrate the soul upon God so that it may become as a fountain pouring out the Water of Life to a thirsty world.  Live up to the principles of sacrifice.  The world will then become as nothing and be without power to attract you away from God.  Sacrifice your will to the will of God.  The Kingdom is attained by the one who forgets self.  Everything becomes yours by renunciation of everything.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 12.
page 66
__________
All the days of his (Abu'l-Fadl's) life were spent in the service of the Cause of God.  His will and desire were devoted to the promotion of the Cause of God, to the promotion of the message of the Kingdom.  He did not think of worldly comfort and tranquillity.  He never tried to protect his life.  He was not at all attached to the ephemeral objects of this contingent world.  All his thoughts, ideals, conceptions and aims were centred upon the service of the world of the Merciful.  Praise be to God, that his intellectual and spiritual life was very fruitful.  All his books contain indubitable proofs and evidences concerning this impregnable, blessed Cause.  Sanctified and holy, divine and spiritual, he ascended from this mortal world to the realm of light.
The disinterested actions and free-hearted deeds of a person proclaim with the sound of a trumpet his loyalty and sincerity in the Cause.  He is in no need of self-justification.  He lives above and beyond the criticism of petty and dwarfed assailers of his integrity and purity of motives.  Their censure does not touch him.  The innate nobility of his soul is not tarnished, the glories of his work are not beclouded.  The river of his spiritual ideality, creative power and imaginative faculty is not dried up.  The sea of his sympathy and increasing hopefulness and direct activity in the Cause is not calmed down.  With a deep insight, holy vision and fresh inspiration he will cause the complete retreat of all his old enemies.  With zest, unfailing courage and undisturbed spirit he will apply himself to new victories in channels of service, broader fields of labour, higher planes of triumph and the solution of vaster and more intricate problems by the magic wand of his determination.  Thus he changes every stumbling block placed in his path to dishearten him from further progress into a stepping stone, advances with confident steps, ever rising higher, never looking backward but always forward, setting aside imperturbably all the seeming difficulties and finally planting his feet on the summit of the mountain of success, beatitude and undiminished glory.  Such a man was Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl.  On such an unshakeable rock every person must lay the foundation of the palace of his life, so that the howling of the winds, the fury of the storms and the onslaught of the wild elements may not in the least shake it.  The life of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl was God-controlled and God-propelled.  Not for one second did he set his own will above the will of God.  He effaced self and lived eternally in God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 8 February 1914.
__________
How humble and meek he (Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl) was!  We tried our best to persuade him to keep a servant, but he would always gently decline.  He desired to serve the believers personally.  Whenever the believers and the non-believers called on him, although he was sick, weak and in fever, yet he would get up and prepare tea and serve his callers with his own hand.  All his anxieties revolved around this supreme object to make people satisfied and happy at any cost.
During all the days of his life I never heard from him the use of the word "I"-"I said so", or "I wrote so and so".  He would say:  "This servant requested them", or "This servant begged the believers".  He never made a display of his knowledge, nor wished to impress upon the mind of any person that he knew such and such information.  He was evanescent and lived in the station of nothingness.  He was self-sacrificing at the Holy Threshold.  No one inhaled from him the odour of superiority.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 22 January 1914.
page 67
__________
The guidance of God is that which will always guide people in the right way.  All human beings are earthly; their hearts are connected with this
page 68
world.  Day and night their thoughts and occupations are earthly; all belong to this world.  They think about the honours of this world, or about the riches and wealth of this world, or of name and fame in this world.  Their days and nights pass in this way.  The guidance of God makes it evident and plain when the way of the Kingdom, the divine path, is opened, that this is the road of the Kingdom.
It is not sufficient only to distinguish the way of the Kingdom, only to discover the heavenly way:  you must travel upon it until the end is reached.  For example, that a man discovers the way to America is not sufficient.  He must travel in it that he may reach that country.  If he remains for years discovering more about the way yet does not travel by it, he will never arrive.  It is not sufficient for a child to know where the school is; he must study in it that he may gain knowledge.  Faith is not merely to know which is the school and to recognize the teacher; one must acquire knowledge in this school.  If one does not gain knowledge it is useless to know of the school.
This is what Christ said:  "Ye shall know the tree by its fruits."  If you see one who is truthful, who really believes and is just, who is attracted to the Kingdom, and whose will is annihilated.  in the way of God, then you will know he is a tree of the Kingdom, if he shows forth all these qualities.  If you see one whose heart is attached to this world and in whom there is no truthfulness or detachment or turning to God, one who is not occupied in praising and speaking of God, or in attraction to the love of God, then you will know he is a tree of darkness.  For true belief is not only to acknowledge the oneness of God:  by belief we mean that the reality of a man will be characterized by divine characteristics.  If his reality is dark, he will become enlightened; if he is heedless, he will become conscious; if he is sleeping, he will be awakened; if he is earthly, he will become heavenly; if he is satanic, he will become divine.  This is the meaning of true belief.
Therefore I say that man must travel in the way of God.  Day by day he must endeavour to become better, his belief must increase and become firmer, his good qualities and his turning to God must he greater, the fire of his love must flame more brightly; then day by day he will make progress, for to stop advancing is the means of going back.  The bird when he flies soars ever higher and higher, for as soon as he stops flying he will come down.  Every day, in the morning when arising you should compare today with yesterday and see in what condition you are.  If you see your belief is stronger and your heart more occupied with God and your love increased and your freedom from the world greater then thank God and ask for the increase of these qualities.  You must begin to pray and repent for all that you have done which is wrong, and you must implore and ask for help and assistance that you may become better than yesterday so that you may continue to make progress.
Do not let the desires of the self find a place within you; for it is certain that when you reach the highest station of spirituality one worldly desire can cause your downfall.  The spirit is like a bird; when it flies in the air it is always mounting.  But the self is like the hunter who is thinking all the time how to catch the bird.  As when a bird is in the air the hunter aims at it and brings it down, so is it with the human desires in the soul.  You will see that by one arrow, one shot, it will be brought low.  This arrow is the connection with this world, the occupations of this world, the desires of this world, the honours of this world.
In many ways the hunter will stop the spirit from ascending.  That is why you must ask and implore and entreat:  "O God, protect me from myself!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from pamphlet entitled True Belief.


VIII:7, 13 July 1917
page 69
Religion and science in the light of the Bahá'í Revelation
J. E. Esslemont, M.B.
One of the fundamental teachings of Bahá'u'lláh is that true science and true religion must always be in harmony.  Truth is one and wherever conflict appears it is due not to truth but to error.  Between so-called science and so-called religion there has been conflict all down the ages, but looking back on these conflicts in the light of fuller truth we can trace them every time to ignorance, prejudice, vanity, greed, narrow-mindedness, intolerance, obstinacy, vested interests or something of the kind,-something foreign to the true spirit of both science and religion for the spirit of both is one.
As Huxley tells us, "The great deeds of philosophers have been less the fruit of their intellect than the direction of that intellect by an eminently religious tone of mind.  Truth has yielded herself rather to their patience, their love, their single-heartedness and self-denial than to their logical acumen."  Boole, the mathematician, assures us that "geometric induction is essentially a process of prayer-an appeal from the finite mind to the Infinite for light on finite concerns."  The great prophets of religion and science have never denounced one another.  They have always reverently received the torch of inspiration from their predecessors in the prophetic series, and lighted the way for their successors.  It is the unworthy followers of these great world-teachers-worshippers of the letter but not of the spirit of their teaching-who have always been the persecutors of the later prophets and the bitterest opponents of progress.
They have studied the light of the particular revelation which they hold sacred, and have defined its properties and peculiarities as seen by their limited vision, with the utmost care and precision.  That is for them the one true light.  If God in His infinite bounty sends fuller light from another quarter, and the torch of inspiration burns brighter than before from a new torch-holder, instead of welcoming the new light and worshipping with renewed gratitude the Father of all lights, they are angry and alarmed.  This new light does not correspond with their definitions.  It has not the orthodox colour and does not shine from the orthodox place, therefore it must at all costs be extinguished lest it lead men astray into the paths of heresy!  Many enemies of the prophets are of this type-blind leaders of the blind, who oppose new and fuller truth in the supposed interests of what they believe to be the truth.  Others are of baser sort and are either moved by selfish interests to fight against truth, or else block the path of progress by reason of spiritual deadness and inertia.  The appearance of a prophet is always a testing time for mankind-a day of judgement, in which the sheep are separated from the goats, those who worship the living reality of truth from those who worship only the material garments in which it is clothed.  Alas! how few there have always been who were ready to welcome truth in a new garment-to welcome the spiritual light when it shone from a new torch!
The great prophets of religion have always been, at their coming, despised
page 70
and rejected of men.  Both they and their early followers have given their backs to the smiters and sacrificed their possessions and their lives in the path of God.  Even in our own times this has been so.  Since 1844 some twenty thousand of the Bábís and Bahá'ís in Persia have suffered cruel deaths for their faith, and many more have borne imprisonment, poverty, exile and degradation.  This latest of the great religions has been baptized in blood more than its predecessors, and martyrdoms have continued down to the present year.
With the prophets of science the same thing has happened.  Giordano Bruno was burned as a heretic in AD 1600 for teaching, amongst other things, that the earth moved around the sun.  A few years later the veteran philosopher Galileo had to abjure the same doctrine on his knees, in order to escape the same fate.  In later times Darwin, and the pioneers of modern geology were vehemently denounced for daring to dispute the teaching of Holy Writ that the world was made in six days, and in the year 4004 BC!  The opposition to new scientific truth has not all come from the church, however.  The orthodox in science have been just as hostile to progress as the orthodox in religion.  Columbus was laughed to scorn by the so-called scientists of his day who proved to their own satisfaction that if ships did succeed in getting down to the Antipodes over the side of the globe, it would be absolutely impossible for them to get up again!  Galvani, the pioneer of electrical science, was scoffed at by his learned colleagues and called the "frogs' dancing master".  Harvey, who discovered the circulation of the blood, was ridiculed and persecuted by his professional brethren on account of his heresy and driven from his lecture chair.  When Stephenson invented his locomotive engine, European mathematicians of the time, instead of opening their eyes and studying the facts, went on for years proving from their preconceived ideas that an engine on smooth rails could never pull a load, as the wheels would simply slip round and the train get no "forarder".
To examples like these one might add indefinitely, both from ancient and modern history, and even from our own times.  Dr Zamenhof, the inventor of Esperanto, (who has just passed away), had to battle for his wonderful international language against the same sort of ridicule, contempt and stupid opposition which greeted Columbus, Galvani, and Stephenson.  Even Esperanto which was given to the world less than thirty years ago has had its martyrs.  In the last half century or so, however, a change has come over the spirit of the times, a New Light of Truth has arisen which has already made the controversies of last century seem strangely out of date.
Where are now the boastful materialists and dogmatic atheists who, only a few short years ago were threatening to drive religion out of the world?  And where the preachers who so confidently consigned those who did not accept their dogmas to the fires of hell and the tortures of the damned?  Echoes of their clamour we may still hear, but their day is done and their doctrines are discredited.  We can see now that the doctrines around which their controversies waxed most bitter were neither true science nor true religion.  What scientist in the light of modern psychical research, could still maintain that "brain secretes thought as the liver secretes bile"?-or that decay of the body is necessarily accompanied by decay of the soul?
We now see that thought to be really free must soar to the realms of psychical and spiritual phenomena and not be confined to the material only.  We realize that what we now know about nature is but as a drop in the ocean compared with what remains to be discovered.  We therefore freely admit the possibility of miracles, not indeed in the sense of the breaking of nature's laws, but as manifestations of the operation of subtle forces which are still unknown to us, as electricity and X-rays to our ancestors.
page 71
On the other hand who among our leading religious teachers would still declare that it is necessary to salvation to believe that the world was made in six days, or that the description of the plagues of Egypt as given in the book of Exodus is literally true, or that the sun stood still in the heavens (i.e., that the earth stopped its rotation) to let Joshua pursue his enemies?  Such beliefs may still be repeated in form, but who, even among the clergy, accepts them in their literal sense and without reservation?  Their hold on people's hearts and minds has gone or is fast going.
The religious world owes a debt of gratitude to the men of science who helped to tear such worn-out creeds and dogmas to tatters and allowed the truth to step forth free.  But the scientific world owes an even heavier debt to the real saints and mystics who, through good report and ill, held to the vital truths of spiritual experience and demonstrated to an incredulous world that the life is more than meat and the unseen greater than the seen.  These scientists and saints were like the mountain peaks which caught the first rays of the rising sun and reflected them to the lower world, but now the sun has risen and its rays are illuminating the world.
In the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh we have a glorious revelation of truth which satisfies both heart and mind, in which religion and science are at one.  Before going further let us first hear what the Bahá'í teachings say about the way in which we must seek the truth:
The search for truth
Man must cut himself free from all prejudice and from the result of his own imagination so that he may search for truth unhindered.  He must accept nothing as final which he has received simply on the authority of parents or ancestors or teachers.  He must aim at seeing all things with his own eyes, understanding them with his own mind.  If he accepts any creed or doctrine which is either opposed to his reason or beyond his comprehension, he is putting into practice superstition and not true faith.  Teachers are necessary, of course, but they must be educators, not crammers.  The real educator draws out the innate powers of his pupils so that they can grasp things for themselves, and does not aim simply at packing their memories with ready made information and rules.  The good pupil is he who while accepting his teacher as an indispensable guide and help, yet tests every step of his progress by the light of his own reason and intuition-in other words, by the Inner Light of the Divine Spirit in his own mind and heart.  That Inner Light must be his final authority.  "Turn thy sight unto thyself that thou mayest find Me standing within thee powerful, mighty and supreme."  In this spirit of search let us now examine the main features of the teaching and see whether it affords a satisfactory basis for the reconciliation of reason and faith.
True agnosticism
The Bahá'í teaching is at one with science and philosophy in declaring the essential nature of God to be entirely beyond human comprehension.  As emphatically as Huxley and Spencer teach that the nature of the Great First Cause is unknowable, does Bahá'u'lláh teach that "God comprehends all; He cannot be comprehended."  To knowledge of the Divine Essence "the way is barred; seeking is forbidden."  How can the finite comprehend the Infinite?  How can a drop contain the ocean or a mote dancing in the sunbeam embrace the universe?  Yet in each drop of water are hidden oceans of meaning and in each mote is concealed a whole universe of significances, reaching far beyond the ken of the most learned scientist.  The chemist and physicist, pursuing their researches into the nature of matter, have passed from masses to molecules, from molecules to atoms, from atoms to electrons and ether, but at every step the difficulties of the search increase till the most profound intellect can pene-
page 72
trate no further, and can but bow in silent awe before the Great First Cause which remains ever shrouded in inscrutable mystery.
"Flower in the crannied wall,
I pluck you out of the crannies.
I hold you here, root and all in my hand,
Little flower; but if I could understand
What you are, root and all, and all in all,
I should know what God and man is."
(Tennyson)
If the flower in the crannied wall, if even a single atom of matter, presents mysteries which the most profound intellect cannot solve, how is it possible for man to comprehend the universe?  How dare he pretend to define or describe the Infinite Cause of all things?  All theological speculations about the nature of God's Essence are thus swept aside as foolish and futile.
Knowledge of God
But if the Essence is unknowable, the manifestations of its bounty are everywhere apparent.  If the First Cause cannot be conceived, its effects appeal to our every faculty.  A cat cannot comprehend the sun or fathom the mysteries of its daily appearance and disappearance, its composition, or its career through celestial space, but she can bask in its beams and appreciate their warmth.  Her eyes are a miracle of organization which enable her to guide her movements by means of the sun's rays reflected from every visible object in her environment.  At every step she skilfully uses these rays, although she may never dream that they have any connection with the sun.  There may be cats who have never seen the sun and have no idea of its existence, yet at every moment their lives depend on it, and they know very well how to take advantage in a thousand ways of the beneficent effects of this unknown cause.  So it is with our relation to God.  At every moment we are absolutely dependent on Him, whether we know it or not.  He has, however, given us the power to know Him through His works.  All things are from Him, and just as knowledge of a painter's pictures gives to the connoisseur a true knowledge of the artist, so knowledge of the universe in any of its aspects-knowledge of nature or of human nature, of things visible or of things invisible-is knowledge of God's handiwork, and gives to the seeker for Divine Truth a real knowledge of His glory.  "The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament showeth His handiwork.  Day unto day uttereth speech and night unto night showeth knowledge." (Psalm 19:1)
The Divine Manifestations
All things manifest the bounty of God with greater or less clearness, as all material objects exposed to the sun reflect its light in greater or less degree.  A heap of soot reflects a little, a, stone reflects more, a piece of chalk more still, but in none of these reflections can we trace the form and colour of the glorious orb.  A perfect mirror however reflects the sun's very form and colour, so that looking into it is like looking at the sun itself.  So is it with the way in which things speak to us of God.  The stone can tell us something of the divine attributes, the flower can tell us more, the animal with its marvellous senses, instincts and powers of movement, more still.  In the lowest of our fellow-men we can trace wonderful faculties which tell of a wonderful Creator.  In the poet, the saint, the genius, we find a higher revelation still, but the great prophets and founders of religions, like Moses, Christ, Muhammad and Bahá'u'lláh are the perfect mirrors by which the love and wisdom of God are reflected to the rest of mankind.  Other men's mirrors have been dulled by the stains and accretions of selfishness and prejudice, but these were pure and without blemish-wholly devoted to the will of God.  Thus they became the greatest educators of mankind.  The divine teachings and the power of the Holy Spirit proceeding through them have been and are the
page 73
cause of the progress of humanity, for God helps men through other men (embodied or disembodied).  Each man who is higher in the ascent of life is the means of helping those below him, and those who are highest of all are the helpers of all mankind.  It is as if all men were connected together by elastic cords.  If a man rises a little above the general level of his fellows, the cords tighten.  His former companions tend to drag him back, but with a precisely equal force he draws them upwards.  The higher he gets the more he feels the weight of the whole world pulling him back, and the more dependent he is on the divine support, which reaches him through the few who are still above him.  Highest of all are the great Prophets and Saviours, the Divine "Manifestations"-those Perfect Men who were each, in their day, without peer or companion, and bore the burden of the whole world, supported by God alone.  "The burden of our sins was upon him" was true of each of them.  Each was the "Way, the Truth and the Life" to his followers.  Each was the unobstructed channel of God's bounty to every heart that would receive it.
The love that flows from the "Manifestation" is God's love.  The wisdom is God's wisdom, the spirit is God's spirit.  He is indeed divine-God manifest in a human temple; but God is One, and the same One God conferred the gift of His Holy Spirit through all the "Manifestations", not indeed according to His power to give, but according to the people's power to receive.  The messages differed, because the peoples for whom they were given were at different stages of development, but the differences were only in the externals, the forms and ceremonies, the rules and punishments, not in the inner spiritual realities of love to God and love to man which have been the heart and soul of all the great religions.
Creation
Bahá'u'lláh teaches that the universe is without beginning in time.  It is a perpetual emanation from the Great First Cause.  The Creator always had His creation and always will have.  This is in harmony with the teachings of science regarding the conservation of matter and energy.  Worlds and systems may come and go, but the universe remains.  All things that undergo composition, in time undergo decomposition, but the component elements remain.  The creation of a world, a daisy or a human body is not "making something out of nothing", it is but a bringing together of elements which before were scattered, a making visible of something which before was hidden.  By and by the elements will again be scattered, the form will disappear, but nothing is really lost or annihilated, ever new combinations and forms arise from the ruins of the old.  Bahá'u'lláh has no quarrel with the scientists who claim, not six thousand, but millions and billions of years for the history of the earth's creation.  The evolution theory does not deny Creative Power.  It only tries to describe the method of its manifestation, and the wonderful story of the material universe which the astronomer, the geologist, the physicist and the biologist are gradually unfolding to our gaze is, rightly appreciated, far more capable of evoking the deepest reverence and worship, than the crude and bald account of creation given in the Hebrew Scriptures.  The old account in the book of Genesis had however the advantage of indicating by a few bold strokes of symbolism, the essential spiritual meanings of the story, as a master painter may by a few strokes of the brush convey expressions which the mere plodder with the most laborious accuracy of detail may utterly fail to express.  If the material detail blinds us to the spiritual meaning then we should be better without it, but if we have once firmly grasped the essential meaning of the whole scheme, then knowledge of the detail will give our conception a wonderful added richness and
page 74
splendour and make it a magnificent picture instead of a mere sketch plan.  Of course, even the most magnificent picture which the trained imagination can frame is in itself but the rudest and crudest of sketches compared with the wonderful universe it attempts to portray.
The descent of man
Neither does Bahá'u'lláh quarrel with the biologist who finds for the body of man, a history reaching back in the development of the species, through millions of years-a history which, starting from a very simple, apparently insignificant form, gradually develops in the course of untold generations, becoming more and more complex, and better and better organized until the man of the present day is reached.  Each individual human body develops through such a series of stages from a tiny round speck of jelly-like protoplasm to the fully developed man.  If this is true of the individual, as nobody denies, why should we consider it derogatory to human dignity to admit a similar development for the species?  This is a very different thing from claiming (as Darwin is popularly although quite erroneously supposed to have claimed) that man is descended from the monkey.  The human embryo may at one time resemble a fish with gill-slits and tail, but it is not a fish.  It is a human embryo.  So the human species may at various stages of its long development have resembled to the outward eye various species of lower animals, but it was still the human species, possessing the mysterious latent power of developing into man as we know him today, nay more, of developing in the future, we trust, into something far higher still.
Body and soul
The materialist idea that "mind is a function of matter" is no longer tenable in the light of psychical research.  A large body of scientific evidence has gradually been accumulating which in the opinion of impartial but highly critical investigators is amply sufficient to establish beyond all question the fact of a life after death-of the continued life and activity of the conscious "soul" after the dissolution of the material body.  As F. W. H. Myers says in his Human Personality:  "Observation, experiment, inference, have led many enquirers, of whom I am one, to a belief in direct or telepathic intercommunication, not only between the minds of men still on earth, but between minds or spirits still on earth and spirits departed.  Such a discovery opens the door also to revelation. ...  We have shown that amid much deception and self-deception, fraud and illusion, veritable manifestations do reach us from beyond the grave."
The Bahá'í teachings with regard to body and soul, and the life after death, are quite in harmony with the results of psychical research.  They teach that death is but a new birth-the escape from the prison of the body into a larger life.  They teach that soul can affect soul independently of spoken or written communication, and that this influence is independent of the body and can take place whether the soul is embodied or disembodied.  They advocate the use of prayers for the "dead" and teach that mutual communion and help are still possible between the "living" and the so-called "dead".  They speak much of the "Supreme Concourse" of holy souls, whose assistance is available for every human being who is advancing in the path of God.  The relation of the soul to the body they picture as like that of a musician to his instrument.  If the instrument is broken and out of tune, the musician will no longer be able to produce beautiful music from it, although he may be as capable as ever.  So when the body is diseased and out of order, the soul can no longer adequately manifest through it on the material plane, and to the eye which sees only the body it might appear as if the whole man had decayed, instead of only the material instrument.
page 75
Heaven and hell
The Bahá'ís regard the descriptions of heaven and hell given in some of the older religious writings as symbolic, like the Biblical story of the Creation, and not literally true.  According to them, heaven is the state of perfection and hell that of imperfection, heaven is harmony with God's will and with one's fellows, and hell is the want of such harmony, heaven is the condition of spiritual life, and hell that of spiritual death.  A man may be either in heaven or in hell while still in the body.  The joys of heaven are spiritual joys, and the pains of hell consist in the deprivation of these joys.  There is no worse hell in the after-death life than the hell in which many of the people around us are living.  Those who have not been "born again", whose spiritual life has not awakened, are dead while they live, and although their souls continue to exist after the death of the body, their condition compared with that of those who rejoice in the love of God is as death.  Even for those who have died in ignorance and sin, however, there is still hope, because the bounty of God is infinite.  For these also we should pray, for our prayers can bear them help from the Source of all help.
The Bahá'ís believe in progress in the after-life as well as in the present.  The divine worlds are infinite, and the possibilities of progress in knowledge, love and good-will are without limit.  This progress depends on God's infinite bounty, and that bounty is available for all who seek it.  The only condition is that we must seek it.  "Love Me that I may love thee, for if thou lovest Me not, My love can never reach thee."  As long as we are content with the animal and material side of life and prefer self to God, so long are we spiritually dead.  It is only when we turn to God and say with all our hearts, "Not my will but Thine be done," that we become spiritually alive and enter the heaven of the blessed.
With such a view as this, surely no true lover of science could quarrel.  F. W. H. Myers says in the work previously quoted which summarizes much of the work of the Psychical Research Society:  "By discovery and by revelation certain theses have been provisionally established with regard to such departed souls as we have been able to encounter.  First and chiefly I at least see ground to believe that their state is one of endless evolution in wisdom and in love.  Their loves of earth persist, and most of all those highest loves which find their outlet in adoration and worship. ...  Evil to them seems less a terrible than a slavish thing.  It is embodied in no mighty potentate; rather it forms an isolating madness from which higher spirits strive to free the distorted soul.  There needs no chastisement of fire; self-knowledge is man's punishment and his reward; self-knowledge and the nearness or the aloofness of companion souls.  For in that world love is actually self-preservation; the communion of saints not only adorns but constitutes the life everlasting.  Nay, from the laws of telepathy it follows that that communion is valid to us here and now.  Even now the love of souls departed makes answer to our invocations.  Even now our loving memory-love is itself a prayer-supports and strengthens those delivered spirits upon their upward way."
The nature of evil
According to the Bahá'í philosophy it follows from the doctrine of the unity of God that there can be no such thing as positive evil.  There can only be One Infinite.  If there were any other power in the universe outside of or opposed to the One, then the One would not be Infinite.  In the realm of created things however, there is variety-variety of light and shade, of colour, of consistence, of taste, of smell.  Among human beings there is variety of physical strength, of health, of intelligence, of courage, of every possible faculty and attribute.
page 83
With regard to every one of these qualities however the differences among different people are differences of degree, not of essence.  Just as darkness is but the absence or lesser degree of light, so evil is but the absence or lesser degree of good-the undeveloped state.  A bad man is a man with the higher side of his nature still undeveloped.  If we are selfish, the evil is not in our love of self-all love, even self love, is good, is divine.  The evil is that we have such a poor, inadequate, misguided love of self and such a lack of love for others and for God.  We look upon ourselves as only a superior sort of animal and foolishly pamper our lower nature as we might pamper a pet dog-with worse results in our own case than in that of the dog.  We may be brilliantly intellectual with regard to material things but we are blind to the things of the spirit and lacking in the higher and nobler part of life.  Evil is always lack of life.  If the lower side of man's nature is disproportionately developed, the remedy is not less life for that side, but more, life for the higher side, so that the balance may be restored.  "I am come," said Christ, "that ye may have life and that ye may have it more abundantly."  That is what we all need-life, more life, the life that is life indeed!
The Bahá'í teaching of unity
"Ye are all the fruits of one tree, the leaves of one branch, flowers of one garden, sons and daughters of one Father whose name is Love."  That is one of the most characteristic sayings of Bahá'u'lláh, and another is like it:  "Glory is not his who loves his (own) country, but glory is his who loves his kind."  Unity-unity of mankind, and of all created beings in God-is the main theme of his teaching.  Men must cast away all prejudices of race, religion, nation, class and sect, and realize that they are all "leaves of one tree".  As the leaf cannot reach its best development unless the whole tree is healthy, so neither can we attain the highest life of which we are capable until the whole of humanity does so too.  One man cannot be truly rich, so long as his brothers are poor, nor can he be perfectly healthy so long as his brothers are sick.  We are all members of one body, and the spirit that animates that body is God's Spirit.
Each individual life is but a fragment of the whole and cannot live apart from the whole any more than a single muscle-cell or brain-cell from the human body could live apart from the rest of the body.  Just as each cell of the body must live not for itself, but in the service of the whole man and in obedience to his will, so each individual man must live not for himself, but in the service of humanity and in obedience to God's will.  Only so can humanity be healthy.  Only so can each man truly prosper.  Never must self-interest, or family interest, or church interest, or national interest or any limited interest whatever take precedence of our supreme duties to mankind and to God.  God first!  If our attitude to Him be right then we shall serve aright ourselves, our families, our church, our nation, our kind.  Devotion to God-severance from everything that would interfere with our devotion to Him-that is the one great secret of successful living.  All the evil and misery in the world come from one cause-forsaking the path of God's will and saying, "My will not Thine be done."
Bahá'u'lláh has given us a new and wonderful revelation of God's will.  If men and nations will but obey His commands, the world will be a paradise in-
page 84
deed!  Now for the first time in the history of the world have the mechanical difficulties in the way of the unity of mankind been overcome by railway trains and steamships, tunnels and aeroplanes, post office and printing press, telegraph and telephone.  Now for the first time in the world (at any rate since the Tower of Babel!) has a solution for the language difficulty been found, and now for the first time in the world, as it seems to me, has a complete and adequate plan for the reconciliation of the conflicting interests of mankind been given to the world.  Bahá'u'lláh has raised the Standard of Peace and Unity and called on all mankind to gather under its ample folds:  "O people of the earth!  Make not the religion of God a cause for variance among you.  Verily it was revealed for the purpose of unifying the whole world.  Blessed is he who loves the world simply for the sake of his generous Lord."  "These fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away and the Most Great Peace shall come, and all nations shall be as one kindred and one family."
Here again the harmony between true religion and science is evident.  With every advance in science the oneness of the universe and the interdependence of its parts has become more clearly evident.  The astronomer's domain is inseparably bound up with the physicist's, the physicist's with the chemist's, the chemist's with the biologist's, the biologist's with the psychologist's, and so on.  Every new discovery in one field of research throws new light on other fields.  Just as physical science has shown that every particle of matter in the universe attracts and influences every other particle, no matter how minute or how distant, so psychical science is finding that every soul in the universe affects and influences every other soul.  Prince Kropotkin, in his book on Mutual Aid, shows most clearly that even among the lower animals mutual aid is absolutely necessary to continued life, while in the case of man, the progress of civilization depends on the increasing, substitution of mutual aid for mutual enmity.  "Each for all and all for each" is the only principle on which a community can prosper.
Conclusion
All the signs of the times indicate that we are at the dawn of a new era in the history of mankind.  Hitherto the young eagle of humanity has clung to the old eyrie in the solid rock of selfishness and materialism.  Its attempts to use its wings have been timid and tentative.  It has had restless longings for something still unattained.  More and more it has been chafing in the confinement of the old dogmas and orthodoxies.  But now the era of confinement is at an end, and it can launch on the wings of faith and reason into the higher realms of spiritual love and truth.  It will no longer be earth-bound as it was before its wings had grown, but will soar at will to the regions of wide outlook and glorious freedom.
One thing is necessary, however, if its flight is to be sure and steady.  Its wings must not only be strong, but they must act in perfect harmony and co-ordination.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "It cannot fly with one wing alone.  If it tries to fly with the wing of religion alone it will land in the slough of superstition, and if it tries to fly with the wing of science alone it will end in the dreary bog of materialism."  Perfect harmony between religion and science is the sine qua non1 of the higher life for humanity.  When that is achieved, and every child is trained not only in the study of the sciences and arts, but equally in love to all mankind and in radiant acquiescence to the will of God as revealed in the progress of evolution and the teachings of the prophets, and through the Inner Light in our own hearts, then and not till then, shall the Kingdom of God have come on earth and His will be done on earth as it is in heaven.  Then and not till then shall the Most Great Peace have fully come.


VIII:8, 1 August 1917
page 85
The Divine Art of Living (continued)2
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16; Chapter II appeared in issues VII:18 & 19; Chapter III appeared in issue VIII:2; Chapter IV appeared in issue VIII:4; and Chapter V appeared in issue VIII:6.]
CHAPTER VI
The Power of the Holy Spirit
...
page 97
There is a wonderful power and strength which belongs to the human spirit, but it must receive confirmation from the Holy Spirit. ...  If it is aided by the bounty of the Holy Spirit, it will show great power, it will discover realities, it will be informed of the mysteries.  Direct all the attention to the Holy Spirit, and call the attention of every soul to it.  Then you will see wonderful signs.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 98
__________
The light is of four kinds:  First, the light of the sun. ...  Second, the light of the eye. ...  Third, the light of the intellect. ...  Fourth, the light of guidance.  This last is the supreme Light, the conscious reality which comprehends mysteries.
"Can this last ever be cognizable through the special senses, as the eye?" was asked.
"By the insight," 'Abdu'l-Bahá answered.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, Heavenly Vista, p. 25.
__________
Truth (the highest truth) is unattainable except through the favour of the Holy Spirit.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
The (Holy) Spirit is encompassing and surrounding all.  It is holy.  It is sanctified from attachment to a special place.  It is present everywhere and at every time.  It exists in all places, yet is placeless.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from a message to "Body of Friends" in 1910.
__________
The Holy Spirit (in its completeness) is given only to the prophets; the people can possess but the rays of the Holy Spirit.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 100
__________
The most important thing is that which comes through the Spirit-the breath of the Holy Spirit.  The soul through the Spirit can realize the Kingdom.  The soul can recognize and feel the love of God.  Distance cannot prevent the receiving of spiritual bounties.  Hills and mountains cannot check that.  Why?  Because there are no chains and bonds for the Spirit.  The sun is very far, in the highest position,-there is a great distance between the earth and sun, yet remoteness and distance cannot prevent its rays from shining.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from Kinney-Beede-Thompson Notes, 'Akká, 30 June 1909.
__________
Verily the poems of Bishop Kan and John Newton are exalted, but it were possible to abridge them all to this:  "O God quicken me with the breaths of the Holy Spirit."  For that which contains the fulfilment of all human inspiration, for that which we supplicate in words is the breath of the Holy Spirit.  Verily, it changeth the earthly man into a heavenly one, the materialist into a spiritual being, the unenlightened into a reflection of the divine, and the satanic man into a godly person.  It maketh the blind to see and quickeneth the dead.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from a Tablet to Y. Dáwúd, London, 1912.
page 101
__________
The Holy Spirit is the only power which will ultimately unite and harmonize the races and nations of the world.  The Cause of God is the only panacea which will heal for all time to come the social, economic and political diseases of mankind.  The revelation of Bahá'u'lláh is the tree which will send its outstretched branches to all the countries and under its cool shade all the religious sects will gather there to fraternize and associate with one another.  The world is full of ideas but they are either fleeting or profitless or impractical or limited in their influence or confined within a narrow scope.  The beaming shafts of the light of cosmic ideals must pierce through the hearts of men and the power of the Holy Spirit is necessary to carry into execution these noble thoughts of the age.  Human power is limited in its influence.  It can unite two persons, or two tribes, or two communities, or at the utmost two nations.  At the same time it confesses that this unity is temporal and may be abrogated by the whim of either of the high contracting parties.
But the divine power unites nations and peoples and cements them together in the bond of brotherhood and peace for ages and cycles.  His Holiness Christ was one person, without any worldly assistance and help, but through the effect of the Holy Spirit he was enabled to unite many nations and religions under the standard of Christianity.  Likewise Muhammad unified the wild, savage tribes of Arabs and made them the conquerors of Asia.  Consequently there must needs be divine power for the accomplishment of this universal aim.  Human power fails in this undertaking.
The words of those souls who are the essences of severance, who are in the utmost sanctity and purity will have an effect upon the hearts of men the result of which will be unity and good-fellowship.  Save through this, ideal communication will not be made possible between the children of men.  They may achieve a temporal union for a few years.  Men may so compound the various ingredients as to be promiscuously mixed together.  But there must needs be the solvent so that they may become perfectly blended and united.  In the human world that solvent is the power of the Holy Spirit which will thoroughly mix and blend the different constituents and elements representing the various nationalities, religions and sects.  I hope the believers of God will unfurl the "World Peace Flag" because their aim is altruistic and they are helped by the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.  Through the power of God it is possible for one Bahá'í to guide one whole nation.  Such spiritual victories are dependent upon the breaths and bestowals of the Holy Spirit.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 15 July 1914.
__________
Spiritual education consists in the inculcation of the ideals of divine morality and promotes high thoughts.  This spiritual education is made possible through the power of the Holy Spirit.  As long as the breaths of the Holy Spirit do not display any influence, spiritual education is not obtained; whereas if a soul is inspired by the Holy Spirit he will be enabled to educate a nation.
Consider the records of bygone philosophers; the utmost that they could do was to educate themselves.  The circle of their influence was very limited.  All that they could do was to instruct a few pupils.  Of such a type was the influence of Plato and Aristotle.  These philosophers were only able to train a limited number of people.  But those souls who are assisted by the breath of the Holy Spirit can educate a nation.  The prophets of God were neither philosophers nor celebrated for their genius.  Outwardly, they belong to the common people, but as they were encircled with the all-comprehending power of the Holy Spirit they were thus enabled to impart a general education to all men.  For instance, His Holiness Christ and His Holiness Muhammad were not among
page 102
the thinkers of the age neither were they counted great geniuses; but through the power of the Holy Spirit they were able to confer universal instruction upon many nations.
They illumined the world of morality.  They laid the foundation of a spiritual sovereignty which is everlasting.  It is the same with those souls who have entered the tabernacle of the Cause of God.  Although not important in appearance, yet everyone is confirmed in stimulating the cause of general moral instruction.  Therefore it has become evident that real spiritual universal education cannot be realized save through the breath of the Holy Spirit.  Man must not look at his own capabilities, but think of the power of the Holy Spirit.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Asiatic Quarterly Review, April, 1913.
__________
This power is not verbal.  It must be actual, demonstrative, dynamic.  This power has gone out of the body of Islám.  The Islamic world cannot grasp the political principles of modern times and is devoid of spiritual potency.  If they desire tremendous progress in as short a time as possible they must obtain spiritual potency, thus reforming and changing all the various branches of the institutional life.  The western nations for the last five centuries have steadily been going forward and, with superhuman energy pushing further and further the frontiers of ignorance and illiteracy, they have attained to their present unassailable position.  Now if the Islamic people start on this path with the same determination and constancy it will take them at least five centuries before they could reach the up-to-date level of western civilization.  This is of course a slow process and, as I told you they must attain to celestial power.  Then you will observe their magical advancement.
'Abdu'l-Bahá from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 October 1913.
__________
The captive of the Holy Spirit is exempt from every captivity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Verily, thy Lord will assist and inspire thee with the breath of the Holy Spirit and will cause thee to utter the
page 103
proofs and principles of thy Lord with great penetration and confidence.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Excerpt from a Tablet, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Ramleh, 1913.
__________
When you breathe forth the breath of the Holy Spirit from your hearts into the world, commerce and politics will take care of themselves in perfect harmony.  All arts and sciences will become revealed and the knowledge of God will be manifested.  It is not your work but that of the Holy Spirit which you breathe forth through the Word.  This is a fundamental truth.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Waite-Harrison Notes, 'Akká, 12 October 1909.
__________
Pay not attention to things material but reach after the Spirit.  Fix your eyes on the Sun of Truth for his light floods the whole earth.  Let the sun give you of his strength then the clouds of prejudice will not hide his light from your eyes, then will the sun be without clouds for you.  May we share in the divine bounties of the Kingdom.  May the world be for you no obstacle hiding the Sun of Truth from your sight, as the human body of Christ hid his divinity from the people of his day.
May you receive the clear vision of the Holy Spirit so that your hearts may be illumined and see the Sun of Truth shining through all material clouds.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Notes of Mrs Mary Hanford Ford, Paris, 27 October 1911.
__________
The spiritual food is the principal food, ... the effect of the spiritual food is eternal.  The material food, that is, the food for the body, is simply water and bread, but the food for the intellect is knowledge and the food for the spirit is the significances of the heavenly words and the bounties of the Holy Spirit.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Kinney-Beede-Thompson Notes, 'Akká, 6 July 1909.
__________
The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are the breaths of the Holy Spirit which create men anew.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
And now, if you act in accordance with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, you may rest assured that you will be aided and confirmed.  You will be rendered victorious in all that you undertake, and all the inhabitants of the earth will be unable to withstand you.  You are conquerors, because the power of the Holy Spirit assisteth you.  Above and beyond all physical and phenomenal forces, the Holy Spirit itself shall aid you.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From address, Washington, D.C., 10 May 1912.-Revised.
__________
The outpouring of the Holy Spirit changes the small acorn into an overshadowing tree and the showers of the heavenly clouds of mercy transform the black soil into a delectable rose-garden.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 104
__________
In the work of the Kingdom of God one should not consider capacity or ability; the confirmation of the Spirit will descend, because the weakest souls through the confirmation of the Holy Spirit become the most powerful.  Some souls who are outwardly ignorant through this gift become learned men.  The weakest souls become the strongest.  Many times a woman has surpassed a thousand men, or, rather, through this help can withstand all the people of the world.
His Holiness Moses was apparently a shepherd but through the divine power he overcame Pharaoh and his armies:  Likewise the disciples were the weakest souls but through the breath of the Holy Spirit and the assistance of the Kingdom of God they became the strongest ones.  The thought which I wish to convey to you is this, you should not look at your capacity or ability, nay, rather rely upon the confirmation of the Holy Spirit,-do not doubt.  (After a long pause) Be confident and sure.  It will help you.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Flowers from the Rose-Garden of Acca, p. 21.
__________
Upon calling 'Abdu'l-Bahá's attention to some French warships in the harbour of Alexandria, he said:
"I desire that you may see the divine ships.  These ships are the blessed sails who are traversing the sea of divine mercy; their propellers are the powers of spiritual love and their captains are the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.  No ship is ever wrecked in this sea; its waves are life-giving.  Each one of the friends of God is like unto an ark of salvation.  Each ark saves many souls from the storms of troubles.  The signs and traces of these sails are never-ending and eternal.  The future centuries and cycles are like the sea on the surface of which these arks glide blissfully toward their spiritual destination.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 October 1913.


VIII:8, 1 August 1917
page 88
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
To Miss Jean Masson, Chicago.
O thou respected one, a herald of the Kingdom of God!
The article that thou hast written1 concerning the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár contained eloquent paragraphs and wonderful and subtle significances.  At the time of writing the power of attraction was manifest and apparent and the real Teacher was instructing and inspiring.  Consequently, it was composed in the utmost fluency and eloquence.
Today, whosoever turns his face toward the Lord of the Kingdom and, with sincere intention, taking the pen in his hand, engages his tine in writing, there is no doubt that the Holy Spirit shall confirm him and the power of the Kingdom of God shall instruct him.
Therefore, rest thou assured in the divine graces and occupy thy time with the utmost power and seriousness in writing and composition, in talking and explanation.
Consider, how in former ages a number of women became confirmed and assisted in the demonstration of faith and assurance and how in this mortal world they left behind immortal names.
In the world of existence there are no greater women than the queens of empires.  Materially they have reached the highest station of womanhood and gained great riches, infinite power and glory.  Notwithstanding all these advantages, when they die and go under the earth, they disappear and become non-existent.  They leave behind no name, no trace, no fruit and no sign.  But the maid-servants of God who are outwardly in the utmost poverty and imprisoned by the people of oppression, humiliated and scoffed at by the outsiders, ere long they will crown their heads with the diadem of the everlasting glory and
page 89
will be established upon the eternal throne of majesty.  Their signs are eternal and their fame universal.  This is the glory of the Kingdom!  This is the heavenly bestowal!  This is the divine outpouring!
Now, praise be to God! that thou didst quaff from the goblet of the love of God, became intoxicated with the wine of the knowledge of God, unloosed thy tongue in the glorification of the Lord of the Kingdom, and became assisted and confirmed with the power of the Supreme.
Therefore, thank thou God, that thou hast become one of the chosen ones and attained to the station of the favoured ones.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Home of Bahá'u'lláh, 'Akká, Syria, 27 February 1917.)


VIII:8, 1 August 1917
page 89
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and the Bahá'í Movement
Jean Masson
(From The Lake Shore News, Thursday, 19 October 1916.)
The citizens of Wilmette are very well aware of the fact that, in the fall of 1917, will be laid, near the southern border of the town, the corner stone of a Temple of Worship, which may seem, to the uninformed, very mysterious, very occult and, consequently, altogether undesirable.  To the citizens of Wilmette this event will be hardly less momentous than to the followers themselves of the great Bahá'í Movement.
The Bahá'í Temple will be the initial building of a great institution-the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  Another mysterious term, that surely has no place in America, least of all in the inoffensive town of Wilmette!
Now, about this institution and the movement, from which it emanates, there is nothing mysterious, nothing occult, [and] nothing condemnatory.
The Bahá'í Movement is the most practical religious movement in the world today.  It is the effort to bring again into expression in human life and service the essential teachings of the Christ.  That this reversion to Christian principles is vital to the continuance of the human race, no one today will presume to deny, with the terrible European war and its vast toll of carnage and hatred and crimes unspeakable forever present in his consciousness.  The Bahá'í Movement makes for the abolition of the human prejudices that induce division and hatred and injustice among men.
Sometimes I have been asked why we Bahá'ís don't use intelligible English to express what we are trying to do and be, what we are trying to build.
The reason is very manifest.  We have no English words succinctly expressive of these oriental terms.  And the English translation is cumbersome, indirect and inadequate.
Bahá'í is the Arabic for glory or splendour.  A Bahá'í, therefore, is a follower of the light.  And he glories in the name, because it is significant.  It is a proclamation to the world of his connection with the great founder of the movement, Bahá'u'lláh.
Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, another Arabic term, signifies "the dawning place of the mentionings of God".  And this dawning place will be not only a place of prayer and the worship of God, but a place from which shall go forth actual and selfless service to humanity, a reflection of service to God.
The sign erected upon the site of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár by the Bahá'í Assembly of Chicago embodies, in general terms, the purpose of the institution-
Mashriqu'l-Adhkár
"These grounds are the site of an edifice to be erected as an 'evident stand-
page 90
ard' in America of the oneness of humanity.
"Its doors will be open to all nations, races and religions.
"Its charities will be dispensed without regard to race or colour.  'Prejudice toward none-Love for all'.
"Here, for the first time in history, religion and science will become harmonious, each the handmaid of the other, both showering their spiritual gifts on all humanity.
"Until the erection of this great edifice, all are welcome to this beautiful spot, and in its enjoyment we ask you to keep it pure and sacred."
Today we are concerned, more than ever before, with the meaning of this Bahá'í Institution; more than ever before with the meaning of the Bahá'í Movement; with its relation to the world, and to world affairs.
The time is ripe for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár-the symbol of the universal principles and truth uttered by Bahá'u'lláh-to begin to take impressive and visible form.  It is time for the world to know that in its midst is a powerful, universal movement, whose adherents are found in every country in the world, who believe in intensive and practical Christianity; who believe with a magnificent faith in the great principles that form the substructure of the Bahá'í Movement.
We can no longer be provincial, isolated or insular.  It is the day of the universal.  It is the day of inter-human consciousness; of the coming together of all peoples into a universal brotherhood.  And our religion must partake of the same universal quality.  We must be ready to say, "Brother, I greet you in the name of your prophet and my prophet, in the name of our God."  And so-the Bahá'í Movement.
The site in Wilmette was chosen for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, because it was the most beautiful to be found available in Chicago or its immediate environs.  A symbol of the highest spiritual ideals, of the noblest religious thought of all ages, to be expressed in superlative architectural beauty, should have a beautiful setting.  And the Bahá'ís of America chose well, when they purchased the land in Wilmette at the juncture of the drainage canal and Lake Michigan.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will not be built in a day, even after the laying of the corner stone, in 1917, of the central house of worship.  The building of the Temple, without any of the accessories, is concentrating the attention of Bahá'ís today.
The Bahá'í Temple will be a structure of great beauty and magnificence.  Many designs have already been submitted by American architects, any one of which would be celebrated far and wide for impressiveness of conception.  A board of architects, however, will complete the final design for the edifice.
But, whatever the design accepted, it will embody various basic principles, symbolic of the universal tenets of the Bahá'í Movement.  It will have nine sides and nine entrances, through which all the religions of the world may enter and unite in the worship of God.  Where they have been separated in the past, by prejudice and mutual unfriendliness, here, in the Bahá'í house of worship will they be harmoniously united.
Throughout the structure and the ornamentation will be expressed this same dynamic thought of world unity.  A massive dome, suggestive of this same unity of religions and peoples, will surmount the Temple.  Picturesque and beautiful gardens will surround it.  Bahá'ís believe in the externalization, in the utmost of beauty and joy and happiness, of the great spiritual truth which they are charged to deliver to the world.
As I have said, the erection of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is not a matter of a day's work.  So tremendous a thought of religious unity and universal service, as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár embodies, cannot be hastily or impermanently externalized.
page 91
The erection of the Temple completed, the accessory buildings will then claim the attention of Bahá'ís.  These buildings will harmonize architecturally with the house of worship.  And, in the years to come, when the last stone of the last building shall be laid, nowhere in the world will be found a group of buildings so beautiful, so imposing, so full of inspiration for humanity, as the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of America.
Not only will the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár usher in a new spiritual day for man; it will usher in a new architectural day, a new scientific day, a new day of universal human service.
Again and again I have been asked the purpose of so many buildings.  I have been asked if this is a colonization scheme, if Bahá'ís mean to establish a community life at the southern extremity of Wilmette.  To the last question I have replied emphatically, "No!"  The world is the home of Bahá'ís.  They can never be nucleated or secluded.  In the Temple of Worship they will find spiritual refreshment, which they will carry out with them into the world and express in work and selfless service.
The accessory buildings will be devoted to the study and propagation of the highest scientific truths.  Here will be taught that basic principle of the Bahá'í Revelation, that religion and science must harmonize.  Art and music will find here, in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, their most perfect expression.  Philanthropic service to the world, to the poor, to the unfortunate will proceed from the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár through its various accessories.
Bahá'ís believe that the time will come, whether in our generation or not, when the Kingdom of God will be actually established on earth, when right living and a complete understanding of spiritual and scientific law by a unified humanity will preclude the possibility of any poor or unfortunate.  Sociologic, industrial conditions will be regulated with justice to all mankind.  There will be no more oppression, no more exploitation of the weak for the aggrandizement of the strong.
Surely, when such beatific conditions prevail among us, the Kingdom of God shall have been established.  And "the founding of this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is to be in the inception of the organization of the Kingdom" ('Abdu'l-Bahá).
This is the faith not only of the Bahá'ís of America, but it is the faith of millions of Bahá'ís throughout the world.
A great institution for the spiritual, religious, scientific education of humanity-the expression of a universal movement for the realization among men of brotherhood, of the unification of religions, must be the exalted conception of a master spiritual genius, a master seer.
And, as such, Bahá'u'lláh is recognized today by scholars, by those that sit in high places, by the poor and the lowly.  His genius makes a universal appeal to humanity.  And to his genius the world is indebted for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
The story has often been told of his heroic life, of his sufferings, of his banishment and imprisonment for the utterance of the great truths that were his by virtue of his spiritual genius.  And we of the immediate day remember well the visit to America, in 1912, of his distinguished eldest son, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, after his release from the prison of 'Akká by the establishment of the Turkish Constitution and the declaration of the Committee of Union and Progress.
It is a story that never palls, for history records no such life of supreme heroism as that manifested by Bahá'u'lláh and his followers.
No superficial, insignificant movement is it that will make its first momentous expression, in the western hemisphere, through the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Wilmette.  It is founded on the blood of thirty thousand martyrs.  It is founded on lives of complete sacrifice and self-
page 92
lessness.  It is founded on the stupendous faith and love, in the midst of a world of hatred, of three of the most remarkable characters of all time-the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Here are the bare historical facts:  On the 23 May, 1844, a young Persian merchant proclaimed the coming of a great world teacher.  Himself he called the Báb, the Arabic for door or gate-the herald of the great one.  Immediately he set to work to prepare Persia spiritually for his recognition.  But a sceptical Muslim world scoffed at the declaration of the young Persian merchant, persecuted him, imprisoned him and finally, in 1850, martyred him for his faith.
From the same country, in 1852, arose Bahá'u'lláh, who gathered the followers of the Báb together, who proclaimed not the coming of a world teacher, but universal principles for the guidance of the world, and the elevation of mankind into lofty realms of spiritual and religious thought.
In the middle of the last century the world had not yet been united by any of the means of intercommunication with which today we are so familiar.  Nations and races and religions were separated by what seemed insurmountable barriers.  And yet here, in the darkness of a dark Muslim land, was a man who taught the oneness of the world of humanity, the oneness of religion, the harmony of religion and science, universal peace, universal education, and the equality of men and women.  He urged the creation of a universal language, the independent investigation of truth.  He taught that prejudice of all kinds must be forgotten, racial antipathy, and religious antagonism.
And, strange as it may seem to us of the twentieth century, he declared the incumbency of establishing a universal tribunal for the arbitration of international differences.
He, Bahá'u'lláh, seemed to possess a vision so universal and penetrating as to embrace within its range the whole world, and centuries and ages and cycles of time.
Men say of him now that he was far ahead of his time.  The world has just begun to think in universal terms, to talk of the universal principles which he proclaimed almost seventy years ago.
And for this priority of vision, for the declaration of his great principles for the conduct of the world, Bahá'u'lláh with his followers was persecuted and banished, first to Baghdád, then to Constantinople, then to Adrianople, and in the summer of 1868, with seventy of his followers, to the penal colony of 'Akká, in Syria, on the Mediterranean coast.
The imprisonment in 'Akká is known as the "most great imprisonment", so prolonged it was and so terrible.
For twenty-four years here he was confined.  And during all this time, as from the first day of his proclamation to the world, he gave continuous utterance to what we know today as the Bahá'í Revelation-religious, scientific, ethical, economic treatises; text books for the conduct of individuals and the guidance of nations, and for spiritual illumination-in itself a complete encyclopaedia of knowledge.
From the prison of 'Akká, before the Franco-Prussian war, Bahá'u'lláh sent epistles to the crowned heads of Europe and to the President of the United States, calling them to universal peace and brotherhood.
That they did not heed the call, we have conclusive evidence today, when the desirability of universal peace was never so urgent, so overwhelming.
On the 28 May, 1892, after forty years of exile and imprisonment, Bahá'u'lláh passed away, an exile still and a prisoner-his message given, his work done.
A marvellous record of endurance and faith, unparalleled in history, save by the endurance and faith of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the central figure today of the Bahá'í Movement.
By the death of Bahá'u'lláh, through his last will and testament, 'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 93
became the great Bahá'í leader.  It is his mission to interpret the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, to lay the foundation of a permanent civilization, that shall be undisturbed by the horrific cataclysms of hate and carnage that tear asunder today the social and religious structure of the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, "the servant of God", as his name implies, was eight years old, when, in 1852, the first Bahá'í exile occurred.  And from that date he shared the vicissitudes, the persecution, the exile, and the imprisonment meted out to his illustrious father.  And, because of his spiritual perception and understanding of the Revelation, because of his worthiness to be the successor of Bahá'u'lláh, it was entrusted to him to continue the great work-the work of calling men and nations to unity and peace and brotherly love.
It was in 1908, sixteen years after the death of Bahá'u'lláh, when 'Abdu'l-Bahá was released from the prison of 'Akká.  He was sixty-four years old.  The marks and the ravages of exile and imprisonment were upon him.  And yet he went forth to deliver to the world the message of Bahá'u'lláh.  He went to Europe, he came to America, proclaiming the basic principles of that message, calling the statesmen and diplomats of the world, the people of the world to universal peace.
Four years ago, on 1 May 1912, he visited the site of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in Wilmette.  He commended the beauty of the location and addressed the Bahá'ís gathered around him upon the great importance to the world of this first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of the occident.
"Thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkárs, which means the dawning point of praise for all religionists,-will be built in the world," he said.  "In the orient and in the occident of the world will they be built.  But this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, being the, first one in the occident, has great importance."
Elsewhere he has said of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár:
"The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Chicago is of the greatest importance.  This is a Bahá'í Temple, a supreme house of worship, a place of spiritual gathering and the manifestation of divine mysteries.
"This organization of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be a type for the coming centuries and will hold the station of the Mother, and thus, later, in other cities many Mashriqu'l-Adhkárs will be its offspring.
"When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, with its accessories, is established in the world, aside from its religious or spiritual influence, it will have a tremendous effect upon civilization."
I wish it were within the possibilities of space to quote at length from the utterances of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Such wealth of literature and knowledge cannot be compressed to the requirements of a short newspaper article.  But the few quotations here produced may convey to the reader somewhat of the inspiration back of the Bahá'í Movement.
The first words of Bahá'u'lláh brought to America were words spoken by him in 1890 to Professor Edward Granville Browne of Cambridge University, who had succeeded in gaining access to the great prisoner:
"We desire but the good of the world and the happiness of the nations; yet they deem us a stirrer up of strife and sedition worthy of bondage and banishment.  That all nations should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men should be strengthened; that diversity of religions should cease and differences of race be annulled-what harm is there in this?  Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and the Most Great Peace shall come.  Do not you in Europe need this also?  Is this not what Christ foretold?  Yet do
page 94
we see your kings and rulers lavishing their treasures more freely on means for the destruction of the human race than on that which would conduce to the happiness of mankind.  These strifes and this bloodshed and discord must cease, and all men be as one kindred and one family.
"Let not a man glory in this that he loves his country; let him rather glory in this that he loves his kind."
The words that follow, with all their oriental imagery, can hardly be conceived today as words whose utterance would throw a man into prison or keep him there, if already confined.  They are the words of Bahá'u'lláh.
"Be thou a giver; when thou art wealthy, and grateful, when thou art poor.
page 95
"Be thou trustworthy, when thou art entrusted.  Face the comers with a welcome smile.
"Be thou a treasure to the poor, an adviser to the rich.
"Be an answerer to the seeker, a fulfiller of promise and faithful in all things.
"Be thou silent when amid the crowds, and let thy judgement be just.
"Be submissive to thy fellowman.
"Be a light in darkness.
"Be thou a comfort to the sorrowful, and a sea to the thirsty.
"Be thou a shelter to the distressed, and a help, an assistant and a support to the oppressed.
"Be pious in all thy actions.
"Be a home to the stranger, a healer to the sick, a stronghold to him who calls for aid, a sight to the blind, and a path to him who is led astray.
"Be thou the beauty of the face of truth, an ornament to the temple of faithfulness, a throne to the house of character, a spirit to the body of the world, a banner to the hosts of justice, and a lamp to the horizon of goodness.
"Be thou a shadow to the fertile soil, a life-boat to the sea of knowledge, a star in the heaven of generosity, a crown to the head of wisdom, a brilliancy to the forehead of the world, and a fruit to the tree of obedience.
"I ask God to protect thee from the fare of hatred and the chill of enmity, for He is the near, the Answerer."
This is the service enjoined upon every Bahá'í to render to the world.  It is Christian service in its essence, in its purity, in its sublimity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has been asked innumerable questions concerning the problems confronting humanity today.  A few of his answers are here reproduced.
As to the Bahá'í Movement:
"The Bahá'í Movement is not an organization.  You can never organize the Bahá'í Cause.  The Bahá'í Movement is the spirit of this age.  It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century.  The Bahá'í Cause is an inclusive movement; the teachings of all the religions and societies are found here; the Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, Zoroastrians, Theosophists, Freemasons, Spiritualists, etc., find their highest aims in this Cause-the; Socialists and philosophers find their theories fully developed in this Movement."
"The objective aims of this Cause are the oneness of the world of humanity; universal peace; universal love; international co-operation, reciprocity; the promotion of the principle of human consanguinity and solidarity, and the establishment of the Kingdom of God, first in the hearts of men and then upon earth."
"Today, in the world of humanity, the most important matter is the question of universal peace.  The realization of this principle is the crying need of the time."
"By a general agreement all the governments of the world must disarm simultaneously.  It will not do if one lays down its arms and the other refuses to do so:  The nations of the world must concur with one another concerning this supremely important subject, thus they may abandon together the deadly weapons of human slaughter."
"The call to arbitration, to peace, to love and to loyalty is the call of Bahá'u'lláh.  His standard has floated for fifty years, summoning all of whatever race and creed."
"Where Love dwells, there is light!  Where animosity dwells, there is darkness!"
"Let your effort be to find harmony.  Let brotherhood be felt among you, and carry ye its quickening power throughout the world."
Questions that have been asked with greater concern, perhaps, of Bahá'ís, than any other questions, are:
"What relation does the Bahá'í Movement bear to Christianity?"
"What place does Christ hold in the Bahá'í Religion?"
These questions are best answered in the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
page 96
"Bahá'u'lláh, established Christ in the East.  He has praised Christ, honoured Christ, exalted Him, called Him 'the Word of God, the Spirit of God', raised the name of Christ to supreme summits of glorification.  Throughout the orient Bahá'ís have illumined the lamp of Christ and spread His mention."
"The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is the same as the Cause of Christ.  It is the same temple and the same foundation.  Both of these are the spiritual springs and the seasons of the soul-refreshing awakening and the cause of the renovation of the life of mankind.
"The spring of this year is the same as the spring of last year.  The origin and end are the same.  The sun of today is the sun of yesterday.
"In the coming of Christ the divine teachings were given in accordance with the infancy of the human race.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh have the same basic principles, but are according to the stage of the maturity of the world and the requirements of this illumined age."
Back of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, whose walls will soon begin to rise in Wilmette, is a great historic world movement.  The day has gone by to regard it lightly or superficially or superciliously.  Great souls have come to re-assert the constructive teachings of the Christ, in terms applicable to the complex requirements of the age.
The world needs them-the teachers and the teachings.  Christians are murdering Christians today.  Christians are guilty today of instituting not universal peace, but universal war to destroy millions of other Christians.  And we have before us the appalling spectacle of the spoliation, the annihilation of unoffending peoples and nations by followers of the Christ.  And civilization is doomed, unless we have the re-creative word spoken that shall penetrate the great aching heart of the world and lead it out of immeasurable darkness into the immeasurable light of a new and glorious day.
Bahá'ís believe that word has again been spoken.  And Bahá'ís believe that city, in which the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of the occident is erected, is a city of brilliant destiny.  They believe that before it lies a great transcendent future.  They believe that it shall influence civilization for all time to come.
Let us approach then the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár with a spirit of humility, of prayer and thanksgiving.  It was greatly conceived.  Let it be greatly honoured.


VIII:9, 20 August 1917
page 112
Conduct of the Assembly and duties of its committee of consultation
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, from the Diary of Mírzá Mahmúd.  Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago.
...
page 114
__________
At the home of Mrs Corinne True, 1 November 1912:
The Spiritual Committee of Consultation asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá as to the duties of the Committee.  He answered:
"The first duty of the members is to effect their own unity and harmony, in order to obtain good results.  If there be no unity, or the Committee becomes the cause of disharmony, undoubtedly, it is better that it does not exist.  If the Committee of Consultation or the general assembly becomes the cause of unhappiness, it must be abandoned.  How pleased I was with the friends in California.  They said:  'We do not want a Committee of Consultation lest we fall into the thought of leadership and superiority and become the cause of dissension.  But, now, praise be to God, we are serving according to our capacity and have no thought or aim, except the spreading of the fragrances of God.'
"Therefore, when the unity of the members of the Committee is established, their second duty is to read the verses and communes, to be in a state of commemoration and mindfulness, that they may see each other as if in the presence of God.
"The third duty of the Committee is consultation and meditation regarding the teaching of the Cause of God in all regions and climes.  They must arise for this great purpose with all their power; they must declare and hasten the necessary steps for teaching the Cause of God.
"Their fourth duty is to meditate and consult for the helping of the poor and the weak and the protection of the sick.
"Their fifth duty is to correct and manage the affairs of the friends and attend to other matters concerning the Cause."


VIII:9, 20 August 1917
page 114
The symbolic meaning of walking on the sea
'Abdu'l-Bahá, from the Notes of Miss E. Rosenberg, 1901.
In this story (the "miracle" of Jesus walking on the water) of our Lord Jesus, the Sea of Tiberius represents the ocean of creation,-the two shores represent earthly truth and spiritual truth.  The boat or ark stands for arguments and reasons by which men acquire knowledge and in this boat Jesus' disciples were tossed on the waves of the ocean of creation.  The shore which Jesus left in order to come to them, walking on the water, represents earthly knowledge.  The haven or shore to which he guided them represents spiritual knowledge.
There are three ways of apprehending truth:  1.  The earthly way,-by means of the five senses; 2.  The way of argument and reasoning-and all philosophers have taught that it is possible to reach the knowledge of all truth by this method; 3.  The spiritual way, by which man receives knowledge from the inner light or inspiration.  The ancient philosophers and indeed the philosophers of all times have taught that the first method, that is by means of the five senses,-was the one certain way of knowing truth. ...  For instance, people in the desert often see a most beautiful mirage of trees and water, but the nearer you approach to this phantom, the more it fades away, and you begin to perceive its unreality.  All this proves that the evidence of the senses alone is not to be relied on for conceiving the truth.
The ancient philosophers have also taught that by the intellect (the second method of argument and reasoning) accurate and absolute knowledge of everything can be obtained. ...  But it is evident that we cannot rely on this second method of obtaining knowledge to insure absolute accuracy.  Successive philosophers are always contradicting each other, and propounding diverse
page 115
theories.  If absolute knowledge were to be obtained by this means, the wisest philosophers would agree in saying the same things.
There is yet a third method of acquiring knowledge, by revelation, or the inspired books; but the difficulty in this case is that every person's interpretation of the book is coloured by his own individuality.  In the time of Jesus Christ, the Jews were prevented from accepting him by clinging to the literal interpretation of their book. ...
As we have before said in the account of this miracle, the disciples of Jesus attempted to sail over the sea of creation in the ark of argument and reasoning, finding great difficulty and danger in proving the truth by so doing.  But when Christ, the Light of the world, who knew all things by the light of inner spiritual illumination, came to them in their boat, walking by his knowledge over the ocean of existence, and having no need of the ark of argument, then immediately they were at their desired haven.


VIII:9, 20 August 1917
page 118
Addresses delivered at the Bahá'í Congress
[17 June 1917, Boston]
The oneness of humanity
Outline of talk by Mr Horace Holley at Boston.
We live today in an organized, developed society, among the accumulated resources of the past.  The youthful mind, feeling its own solitary weakness in the presence of so much authority and power, tends to discredit its own resources and its own power, and early becomes susceptible to the all-pervading influences of materialism.  For, in the broad view of things, materialism is simply the preponderance of external influence over the innate quality of the individual spiritual life.  The ordinary mind, therefore, learns to develop its imitative, memorizing qualities at the expense of its creative, independent attributes.  It locates authority in institutions, and traditional customs and beliefs rather than in spiritual impulse.  In all activities, however, the creative work is done by minds which use accumulated knowledge, tradition, and custom as fuel to their own vision.  Without such minds in art, science, politics and philosophy-to say nothing of religion-the world would rapidly become stagnant, the slave of material doctrines.  The vision of the few keeps alive the faith that the ultimate authority is really invested in the individual soul, for every new advance, every improvement, comes from some soul's independent activity.  The spirit creates all things, and without spiritual activity thoughts decay.
Thus when we deal with the sources of things, even those things not commonly called religious, we perceive that society is essentially a manifestation of states of mind.  Though most minds are early benumbed into the belief that they are the results and not the causes of society, materialism actually creates nothing, it merely has the power to perpetuate error and lack of faith.
Since we have come to a condition of affairs where the influence of minds upon one another is the all-determining factor in life, almost totally replacing the influence of the natural environment which determined life in earlier times, nothing is more important today than a general realization of the truth that society, in the long run, reflects mental states.  We still manifest the mental states established under primitive conditions, still hold to the physical law of self-preservation and rivalry learned in the jungle, though the great war, as well as unrest and disturbance throughout society, show clearly enough that the physical law is no longer a guide but a betrayal.  In other words, we stand half way between two civilizations-that in which nature determines thought, and that in which thought looks for guidance from the world of consciousness.  In the world of consciousness we have a reality as universal, and far more powerful than nature, we have the Divine Manifestation, the Prophet who exemplifies not merely the Will but also the Reality of God.
Revelation is the proper environment of man's spiritual self.  Revelation is the mother nature of the soul.  It is the universe into which all men must be born anew to live complete, free lives.  The religious teaching of love has been negative by man's fear of his fellow-the Bahá'í teaching of Unity casts out this fear by showing the interdependence in which all now live.  Love or Christianity, is like a ship which has been drawn up on the sands of spiritual
page 119
ignorance.  Unity, or the Bahá'í Movement, is the sea in which that ship can now be launched.
Long ago it was said that the proper study of mankind is man.  Man, however, exemplifies all degrees of existence from the lowest animal up.  To study man in general is to find abundant proofs for every opinion about life.  The proper study of mankind is really Man-the Revelator, the Mirror in which our true attributes can be beheld.
Religion must be the cause of unity in the human world
From Talk by Mr Howard MacNutt at Boston.
This is the Cycle of Definition; not only have the meanings of the prophecies, terms and symbols of the heavenly books become manifest, but now is the time of clear vision, real perception and accurate observation.  A few years ago, standing in the Lick observatory upon the summit of Mt. Hamilton in California, looking out into the starry abysses, an astronomer said to me, "Tonight definition is perfect; all the constellations are visible."  In this day of inner perception and spiritual vision, standing in the lofty height of the Universal Manifestation, Bahá'u'lláh, we behold the divine Manifestations as one in the heaven of the Will of God, each constellation clear, distinct and shining in its own time and place, but all co-ordinated in the oneness of an infinite perfection.
Bahá'u'lláh is the object-glass of our spiritual telescope; 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the lens or eye-piece through whom when rightly focused we view not his personality, but the light of the Abhá splendour streaming through him.
Religion then is the revealed will of God by the light of which the conscious eye of man is quickened into intuitive recognition of the divine plan and Covenant.  The natal hunger of human consciousness proves this knowledge must be revealed.  Therefore the Word is made flesh only in the human kingdom.
Religion has been considered as codes of philosophical explanation and theological interpretation.  In reality these have been satanic fancies.  The very antithesis of true religion, are therefore the cause of disunion and hatred.  Still the fact of the Word proclaims "Religion must be the cause of unity in the human world."
Each Manifestation has sounded the true diapason1 harmony of the inner and outer spheres.  Mankind wanders away from the pitch, becomes dissonant, then another Manifestation sounds the original chord, summoning the world again to the true harmony.
This is the cycle of spiritual democracy.  We are in the evolutionary times of transition from autocracy to democracy; from theocracy to individual responsibility of service and greater measure of judgement.  It is the cycle of universal problems and universal solutions.  The various systems of religious belief were not intended to unite before this day of God.  Rivers mingle in their outlet with the ocean, but not in their courses.  The barriers or watersheds are the concealed ordinances and ceremonials.
The materials for the divine temple of unity are now assembled.  They cannot build themselves together into the plan of the Architect.  The Architect himself does not build the structure.  There must be a master builder who combines the materials in obedience to the Architect's intention.  This master-builder is the Centre of the Covenant through whom a creative cosmic constructive power is now manifesting itself.  At the point of boiling, every atom of water is in intense agitation; then a new element, steam, appears.  We axe at the climax of ebullition.1
Once I saw thousands of fishes stranded in pools upon the beach.  They could not reach the ocean nor reach one another.  I tried to help them, but not until the great ocean tide itself came in
page 120
were they blended with it and brought together in salvation and unity.  This unity of man in the revealed will of God, is the bounty of God descending upon those who now see the sign of the Son of Man in the heaven of religion, coming with his angels and servants to quicken conscious perception of the heavenly Covenant and its Centre, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
The equality of men and women
Resume of address by Mr Louis G. Gregory at Boston.
The Day of God is the day of freedom for all the varied elements of humanity.  It accords with divine justice that each and all may develop their powers without hindrance from their fellows.  Hand in hand with the oneness of humanity is the other principle, the equality of men and women.
Humanity "cannot exist half-slave and half-free".  Women must be free in order that men may be free.  Considering the physical, mental and spiritual effects:  thraldom rests as heavily upon the oppressor as upon the oppressed.
Are women inferior to men on the physical plane?  This proposition cannot be scientifically proved.  Instances are multiplied where women perform the tasks usually assigned to men with good results.  In this great cycle the latent powers of women become more and more patent.  It becomes apparent that any relative weakness on the part of women can be corrected by proper exercise and training.  In the lower kingdoms, the female is often more active and powerful than the male.  With the opportunities now afforded to women for physical culture, men who boast of physical prowess may look to their laurels.
Are the sexes intellectually equal?  Although in past ages women who arose to places of commanding influence were rare and exceptional, yet a number of such cases can be cited to prove their inherent powers.  In politics they have successfully, ruled nations, inspiring their subjects to growth and freedom.  Their contributions to literature, art and science have won fame and even in war time they have been forces to be reckoned with.  Their right to vote grows in public favour throughout the world.  Here again any seeming inequality of the sexes yields to those opportunities for education which the new cycle brings.
On the spiritual plane the attainments of women cannot be questioned.  The thing speaks for itself.  In nearly all religions women are in the majority and be it said to their eternal honour, they do not exercise over men the tyranny of a majority.  How noble is that modesty, how spiritual is that trait, by which they so often efface themselves and vote men into office!
Many great women have arisen in the world.  Among the very greatest was Qurratu'l-'Ayn, who was a follower of the Báb and one of the nineteen Letters of the Living.  Beautiful, witty, learned, she became, through divine power, a brilliant star of reality.  She spread the light of God and wrought a marvel toward the emancipation of women.  She sacrificed life and more than life, in the path of God.  Traces of her glorious service may now be found in all parts of the world.
The greatest attribute of God is His justice.  The Most Great Peace will be permanent because its basis is divine justice.  The equality of men and women is a light of reality.  The Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá have in oneness proclaimed this principle.  The thing is done which ought to be done.  The light shines, though the darkness doth not understand.  In the Kingdom of Abhá, no differences are recognized.  The purest heart is most acceptable to God, whether man or woman.


VIII:10, 8 September 1917
page 121
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16; Chapter II appeared in issues VII:18 & 19; Chapter III appeared in issue VIII:2; Chapter IV appeared in issue VIII:4; Chapter V appeared in issue VIII:6; and Chapter VI appeared in issue VIII:8.]
CHAPTER VII
Love
Unity is love.  It cannot be established without love.  Therefore try, as far as possible, to be filled with love.  Love is perpetual life, the most perfect vitality.  Consider how love has gathered us together from the East and the West!  If there were no love between us our friendship would have been concluded with salutations, such as "Good morning" and "Good evening."  Love draws us in friendship to the people of every race and religion.  He is a Bahá'í, of the people of Bahá, from whom we breathe the fragrance of this love again. ...  The highest love is independent of any personal advantages which we may draw from the love of the friend.  If you love truly, your love for your friend will continue, even if he treats you ill.  A man who really loves God, will love Him whether he be ill, or sad, or unfortunate.  He does not love God because He has created him-his life may be full of disassociations and miseries.  He does not love God because He has given him health or wealth, because these may disappear at any moment.  He does not love Him because He has given him the strength of youth, because old age will surely come upon him.  The reason for his love is not because he is grateful for certain mercies and benefits.  No!
The lover of God desires and adores Him because He is perfection and because of His perfections.  Love should be the very essence of love, and not dependent on outward manifestations.
A moth loves the light, though his wings are burnt.  Though his wings are singed, he throws himself against the flame.  He does not love the light because it has conferred some benefit upon him.  Therefore he hovers round the light, though he sacrifices his wings.
This is the highest degree of love.  Without this abandonment, this ecstasy, love is imperfect.
The lover of God loves Him for Himself, not for his own sake.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Quoted from Fortnightly Review; June 1911.
page 122
__________
Although the body-politic is one family, yet because of the lack of symmetry some members are comfortable and some are in the utmost misery; some members are satisfied and some are hungry; some are clothed with the most costly garments while some families are in need of food and shelter.  Why?  Because this family has not that reciprocity and symmetry needed.  This household is not well arranged. ...  Is it possible for a member of a family to be subjected to the utmost of misery and abject poverty, and for the rest of the family to be comfortable?  It is impossible, unless the rest of the family be without feeling, having become spiritually atrophied, inhospitable, unkind. ...
The purport is this, that as we are all inhabitants of the same earth, in reality we are one family, and each one of us is a member of that family.  Therefore we must all live in the utmost of happiness and comfort under a just rule and regulation in accordance with the laws of God, because this life is fleeting, and if man looks after himself only, he is no better than the animal, for the animal alone is to that degree egotistic.  On the contrary man should be willing to accept hardships for himself in order that others may be happy. ...  This is characteristic of man, this is becoming to man. ...  Such a man is the honour of the world of humanity; such a man is the glory of the world of mankind; such a man is he who wins eternal bliss; such a man is nearer the threshold of God; such a man is the very manifestation of eternal happiness.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Address given at Montreal, Canada, 3 September 1912.
page 123
__________
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!  The Lord of the Kingdom and the Sun of Truth hath sent forth a splendour and effulgence upon the world and the universe.  All the contingent things found life and existence from the rays of that effulgence, entered and became manifest in the arena of being.  Therefore all the objective phenomena are as surfaces of mirrors upon which the Sun of Truth hath cast the rays of the outpouring of bounty.  All these surfaces (different stages of life) are mirrors reflecting the rays of the Sun of Truth.  The outpouring is the One outpouring and the effulgence is the One effulgence.  These complex and diversified mirrors are different from one another.  Some of them are in a state of the utmost purity and clearness, reflecting the rays of the Sun of Truth, and the effulgence of the Luminary is manifest and visible in them.  On the other hand there are mirrors full of dust and therefore dark; consequently, they are deprived and bereft of any radiation.
The believers of God are the translucent mirrors who, with the utmost purity and clearness, are reflecting the rays of the Orb of religions[MW1].  Other communities are being darkened and bedimmed like unto stone and adamant.  This condition is especially true of the people of hostility, animosity, oppression and tyranny, and the fanatical ones, who, on account of the accumulation of dust (prejudice) have become like unto the black stone, into which the rays of the sun do not penetrate and from which no light radiates.
Now we must not consider nor recognize these mirrors, which are deprived of every gift, as strangers and foreigners, neither should we speak of nor know them as enemies or savages; nay rather, must we recognize them as the members of our body, showing them love and affection; not as strangers, but as associates; not as foreigners, but as friends.  One must become engaged in their training and education, sympathize with and show pity to them and lead them into the heavenly characteristics, in order that the accumulated dust may disappear from the surfaces of those mirrors and the shining rays of the Sun of Truth radiate from them.
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!  Be ye not a stranger to anyone, even if he be the lowest of savages on the face of the earth and knows nothing of God, or even if he be an enemy.  Desire ye his association, aspire ye for his freedom and long ye for his perfection, in order that hatred and dissension, animosity and oppression, cruelty and tyranny, brutality and falsehood, pride and transgression may be removed from among mankind, the universe become the Paradise of Abhá, the world be transformed into the Kingdom of Heaven, the human race become angels and the individuals of the world of humanity become the manifestors of the favours of the glorious Lord.  This is the perfection of the human world.  This is the divine guidance of the Almighty.
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!  Display ye the utmost charity toward the poor, the orphans and the helpless ones of all communities and nations, and have ye for them exceeding consideration.  Serve ye them like unto the real servants.  Know ye them as excellent persons and count yourselves day and night the thralls of mankind.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 125
__________
O thou who art attracted by the fragrances of God!  Know thou assuredly that:
Love is the mystery of divine revelation;
page 126
Love is the effulgent manifestation;
Love is the spiritual fulfilment;
Love is the light of the Kingdom;
Love is the breath of the Holy Spirit inspired into the human spirit;
Love is the cause of the Manifestation of the Truth (God) in the phenomenal world;
Love is the necessary tie proceeding from the realities of things through divine creation;
Love is the means of the most great happiness in both the material and spiritual worlds;
Love is a light of guidance in the dark night;
Love is the bond between the Creator and the creature in the inner world;
Love is the cause of development to every enlightened man;
Love is the greatest law in this vast universe of God;
Love is the one law which causes and controls order among the existing atoms;
Love is the universal magnetic power between the planets and the stars shining in the lofty firmament;
Love is the cause of unfoldment, to a searching mind, of the secrets deposited in the universe by the Infinite;
Love is the spirit of life in the bountiful body of the world;
Love is the cause of the civilization of nations in this mortal world;
Love is the highest honour to every righteous nation.
The people who are confirmed therein are indeed glorified by the Supreme Concourse, the angels of heaven and the dwellers in the Kingdom of Abhá.  But, if the hearts of the people become void of the divine grace-the love of God-they wander in the desert of ignorance, descend to the depths of ruin and fall to the abyss of despair where there is no refuge.  They are like insects living on the lowest plane.
This is the path of Bahá.
This is the religion of Bahá.
This is the law of Bahá.
He who has not this has no portion with Bahá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 325.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá said there are five kinds of love:
First:  The love of His own perfections which caused God to create that His beauty might be made manifest and appreciated.
Second:  The love between sanctified souls for the attributes of the divine which they see reflected in one another.
Third:  God's love to man individually that is gained according to the measure in which a man turns to God.
Fourth:  Man's love for God, the Creator.  This is the cause of his life, progress and happiness.
Fifth:  The love of self, which if directed to the ego will deprive man of all true development, but if the love of self is a realization that one is a creature of God and must therefore attain to the station appointed for him, this love will be an uplifting one.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, in A Brief Account of My Visit to Acca, Chicago, 1905, p. 38.
page 127
__________
Among the human race, the bonds of, and means for, love are numerous, for man cannot live without it; nay rather, human life is dependent upon friendship and affection.  Both the material and intrinsic development of man are conditional upon amity and love and the greatest honour and pleasure in the human world is love; but the ways and means are different.  Sometimes the cause of love is simply relationship and kinship:  and sometimes it is a racial bond, patriotism, political affairs, etc.  But, through all these various bonds and means it is impossible to obtain a real and pure love:  it is rather superficial and temporary.  Such love may easily be changed into enmity and rancour, for it is affected by the slightest manifestation of hostility; whereas a true and ideal love is faith and assurance.  Those who believe in God and are confident in His word shall enter the Kingdom, and the essential oneness appear from among them to such an extent that all become the drops of one ocean, the rays of one sun, the fishes of one sea, the trees of one garden, the birds of one orchard, the candles of one assembly and the stars of the same heaven.  Such love is real; there is no interruption for this connection, nor any separation for this union.  This foundation shall never be destroyed, for it is eternal.  Hence it is established that the love which exists among the beloved of God is everlasting for it is a divine bounty, a godly appearance, a melody of the Kingdom and a heavenly cohesion.  In the Qur'án it is said:  "They love Him and He loves them"-i.e., the bounty of love is one of the divine bounties which comes to man from God, just as the sun sends its rays to the mirrors and thereby the mirrors are illumined:  this effulgence and splendour are from the bounty of the sun.  Therefore, this love which is among the beloved is a divine bounty, a godly splendour, an eternal manifestation and the power of divinity:  it is perpetual.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Baha'i News, No. 8, p. 5.
__________
That which is most delicious in the world of existence is love.  The air of itself is not delicious, neither is water, nor in short, all the elements; but when coupled with love they are most delicious.  Love is the best condiment.  When love exists in the heart the slightest gesture proves welcome.  When love exists in the heart, even if it be a blow it is delicious.
For instance:  the food on this table is nothing, indeed very simple; yet because it is prompted by love it is delicious.
The Lord's Supper of Christ was indeed a very common thing, but because there was excessive love among the individual members who convened there, that table surpassed the royal tables and it was established as the Lord's Supper.  Even now, at this time, it is known as such.  This was due to the love which existed between Jesus Christ and the disciples.
... The protestant missionaries were amazed at our love, and they were greatly disturbed and grieved exceedingly over it.  They wonder what has cemented the Americans and Persians! ...  They do not know that the factor is the love of God and that it has united us.
The disciples of Christ represented many different nations and climes.  One was a Hebrew; another a Syrian and another a Roman.  How God, through His love, cemented their hearts!  Even so it is now!  It is the love of God which has connected us, so that in the utmost love do we assemble and are gathered together here.
The means for friendliness are multitudinous.
There is the family bond which is the cause of love.  There is the patriotic
page 134
bond which is a basis for love.  There is the racial cause which is a source of love.  There is the political one which is the cause of love and unity.  Partnership in business is one sort of connection.
But there is no bond like the love of God, for the love of God is the bond eternal, and outside of it there are only temporary ones.
The love of God is that peculiar bond which is not subject to corruption; whereas, other bonds, other loves, are subject to instantaneous corruptive changes.  For the least cause such another love might be changed into hate.  It owes its origin to a cause; when the cause is removed, the effect will, likewise disappear.
But the love of God is not dependent upon material causes.  For example, our assemblage here is absolutely free from any of the petty causes.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  A Heavenly Feast, p. 30.
__________
There are two kinds of love, one universal and one individual.  You must love humanity in order to uplift and help humanity.  Even if they kill you, you must love them.  Individual love cannot be forced and you are not called upon to love everybody personally, but if they are in your lives see to it that they are [the] means of your development and that you are [the] means of their development through your universal love for them.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Unity Through Love, p. 26.
__________
Question:  "How can one love another whose personality is unpleasant"
Answer:  "We are creatures of the same God.  We must therefore love all as children of God even though they are doing us harm.  Christ loved his persecutors.  It is possible for us to attain to that love.  God manifested his love by creating, man in His own image.  Man must manifest his love by developing himself and others more and more in the image of God.  The true fruit of man is, therefore, love.  The purpose of a tree is to produce fruit.  Man is like a tree; his fruit should be love."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Unity Through Love, p. 27.
page 135
__________
... The object of the dawn of the Morn of Guidance and the effulgence of the Sun of Reality have been no other than the inculcation of the utmost love among the children of men and perfect good-fellowship between the individuals of mankind.  Therefore, in the beginning the foundation of this love and unity must be laid among the believers of God, and then permeate through the nations of the world.  Therefore as much as you can be ye kind to wards one another, and likewise to others.
The first melody of the Kingdom is the song of the love of God, and the love of God is realized in the universal love of all humanity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 20 August 1914.
__________
The world is black; the divine bestowal is radiant.  This blackness must
page 136
be changed into light, and this narrow, dark sphere must be transformed into a vast, illimitable universe of illumination.  The body of the world is like a corpse; it must be resuscitated:  It is withered; it must be made fresh and blooming.  It is extinct; it must be enkindled.  It is the arena for the expression of animosity; it must be made the dawning-place of love and good-fellowship.  It is the place of origin for the emanation of contention; we must make it the axis around which revolves unity.  It is the expression of the baser qualities which lead to eternal disgrace; we must make it the rising-point of the refulgent rays of the everlasting glory.  The strangers must be instructed in the lesson of neighbourliness; and the heedless made aware; the enemies must be loved, and the hateful ones be shown kindness.  We must become flaming torches and the burning fire of God.  We must move this world and illumine this dark globe.  All this depends upon the effort of the friends and the sacrifice of the beloved ones.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 August 1913.
__________
This is one of the wonders of this age, that an oriental and an occidental can meet each other on a common ground.  Although there exists among them no racial, no patriotic, or political relations, yet they love each other as though they belonged to the same race.  This is spiritual relationship.  Often two brothers, reared in the same family, are antagonistic toward each other, but you two who are remote from each other, are in reality as brother and sister.  Happy are you because you have drunk from this spiritual fountain and attained to the reality of existence.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 6 August 1913.
__________
... The test of the truth (of God) lies in the influence the conception has on our lives.  If it makes us kind and loving in our relationship with our fellowman, we know it is a true one.  In other words it must produce in our hearts a love of God which must be transmitted into love for man.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Notes of Aline Shane Devin, 'Akká, about 1900.


VIII:11, 27 September 1917
page 137
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
CHAPTER VII (continued)
Love
page 138
If you desire to love God, love thy fellow-men.  In them you can see the image and likeness of God.  If you are eager to serve God, serve mankind.  Renounce the self in the Self of God.  When the aerial mariner steers his airship skyward, little by little the disharmony and incongruity of the world of matter are lost, and before his astonished vision he sees widespread the wonderful panorama of God's creation.  Likewise when the student of the path of Reality has attained to the loftiest summit of divine love, he will not look upon the ugliness and misery of mankind; he will not observe any differences; be will not see any racial and patriotic differences; but he will look upon humanity with the glorified vision of a seer and a prophet.  Let us all strive that we may attain to this highest pinnacle of ideal and spiritual life.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Question:  "How shall I overcome seeing the faults of others-recognizing the wrong in others?"
Answer:  "I will tell you.  Whenever you recognize the fault of another, think of yourself:  What are my imperfections?-and try to remove them.  Do this whenever you are tried through the words or deeds of others.  Thus you will grow, become more perfect.  You will overcome self, you will not even have time to think of the faults of others.  Man is blind, yet he sees far.  That is puzzling.  We are in Paris and we see the faults of the believers in America and in Stuttgart, but, we are so blind that we cannot see the nose (touching his nose) on our own face.  While we are blind we have a far-sighted vision to America, to Germany.  You must carry the glad-tidings of the Kingdom wherever you go, and make the people happy, awake them into greater activity-make them active."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Notes of private interview, Paris, 1913.
page 139
__________
Holding out in his hand, a piece of very thin paper before his eyes, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "See what a slight thing will shut off our physical sight; so will a slight indiscretion, a cross word, an adverse criticism shut off the delicate spiritual sight."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From notes of Mrs Mary Hanford Ford, Paris, 1911.
__________
Question:  "How can we love our enemies; it is so hard?"
Answer:  "There are two kinds of love:  one is direct love which proceeds from a person to another person; the other is indirect love-that is to love an object for another's sake.  Now we must love our enemies for God's sake and because He has created them; we must love them and not for their own personality.  For instance, if your beloved sends you a rose, you appreciate it, kiss it and it is valuable to you.  This love is not regarding the personality of the thing itself, but for the sake of the one who has sent it to you.  We must love the house for its owner's sake."
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
... Treat ye the sinners, the tyrants and the blood-thirsty enemies as the faithful friends and the confidants of the heart.  In truth ye must become the embodiment of benevolence and the expression of grace.  Do not look upon the "worth" and "merit" of the people.  In former ages and cycles, the command of love and non-resistance had been revealed.  But there was a pretext among the people,-"merit" and "de-merit".  They would say this person is contumacious1 and a hypocrite and that person is blood-thirsty and cruel.  And if any one practised forgiveness that forgiveness was coupled with blame and reproach.  But in this dispensation, all these pretexts are dispelled and real love and kindness with all the soul and heart to all the nations of the earth is the absolute law. ...
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablet translated 5 February 1907 by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
page 140
__________
When the Arabs observed Muhammad's charity toward the orphans and unprotected, his extreme simplicity and democratic attitude toward all mankind, they used to say:  "He is in love with his Maker."  One of the sayings of the Prophet (Muhammad) is:  "Do you love your Creator?  Love your fellow beings first."  In another place he says:  "That man who is most considerate of his kind is the favourite of God."  In another place he says:  "How do you think God will know you when you are in His presence?  By your love of your children, of your kin, of your neighbours, of your fellow-creatures." ...
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 October 1913.
__________
We were commanded by Bahá'u'lláh to assist all the communities without the exclusion of any one.  We do not consider their deeds and actions.  We never lose sight of the fact that mankind are the children of God and their wants must be relieved without distinction of race or religion.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 27 January 1914.
__________
In every dispensation the command of friendship and the law of love have been revealed, but it has been circumscribed within the circle of the believing friends and not with contrary enemies.  Praise be to God, that in this wonderful cycle the laws of God are not confined within any limitations, neither must they be exercised toward a special community to the exclusion of another.  He hath commanded all the friends to show love, friendship, amity and kindness to all the people of the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 July 1913.
page 141
__________
No brotherhood appears in the world as lasting save that of the spiritual type.  Only that brotherhood is permanent and eternal, for it is a spiritual brotherhood through the breath of the Holy Spirit.  It is absolutely indissoluble; permanently will it remain intact, and in all the worlds of God will it be everlasting.  It is a brotherhood not based upon thoughts, but one that has emanated from the love of God.  It is not founded for the attainment of physical or material interests.  This spiritual brotherhood has no other purpose than nearness to the Threshold of God.  It is not for defensive purposes but for the illumination of the human heart.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Address given in Montreal, Canada, 4 September 1912.
__________
Material friendship is not permanent; for every kind of love which is not
page 142
purely for the sake of God is ended in hatred.  Amity which is not for the sake of the Lord changeth into enmity.  But the divine friends are the faithful ones; they are the consolation of the heart and the peace of my spirit.  They are spirit embodied, love personified, sincerity incarnated, loyal friends and staunch lovers.  Therefore they are the cause of the happiness of the heart and soul.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 July 1913.
__________
Did you know what I was smiling for?  There was a person inside who called me.  When I entered he said:
"Two years ago I came to you and stated that you were the chief of all the infidels.  Now I want to tell you that you are not an arch-infidel."
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá laughed and said:
"In either case he has not understood, he is just revealing the state of his own consciousness.  We must be kind to such people."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 21 December 1913.
__________
Now the believers of God must live in accord with these divine teachings.  They must become kind fathers to the children of humanity, affectionate brothers to the youths of mankind and soul-sacrificing children toward those laden with age.  The aim is this:  you must be in the utmost state of joy and fragrance, love and kindness toward all, even toward the enemies.  Meet the persecutions and adversity with the utmost faithfulness.  Whenever animosity appears deal with it with forbearance.  Make your breasts the targets for the arrows and spears of opposition.  Brave the ridicule, the blame and the rebuke with perfect love so that all the nations may observe the power of the Most Great Name, and all the people may acknowledge the potency of the Blessed Perfection, showing how he hath destroyed the foundation of strangeness, hath guided the inhabitants of the world to unity and love, hath illumined the realm of man and hath transformed this terrestrial globe into the delectable paradise.  These people are like children, negligent and mindless.  One must train these children with the utmost love and carry them in the arms of grace with infinite tenderness, in order that they may taste the spiritual love of the Merciful One, that they may shine like the candles and cause the disappearance of the darkness of the world.  Thus they may behold clearly and manifestly with what glorious crown and brilliant diadem the Most Great Name, the Blessed Perfection,-May my life be a sacrifice to him!-hath adorned the heads of his believers; what graces he hath poured upon the hearts of his friends; what love he hath brought into the world of humanity and what friendship he hath caused to appear among the children of men.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet in Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 July 1913.
__________
Thy letter was received. ...  From its words I heard a sweet melody and that melody was the psalm of the love of God.  Although in the world of existence the outpourings of the Almighty are infinite, yet the greatest divine outpouring is the love of God.  This is the dominant, transcendental power which rises above all the natural susceptibilities of the world of humanity.  Man, like the animal, is captive of the world of nature and the laws of nature exercise full control over his nature.  He cannot even be compared to the beasts of
page 143
prey.  For example, one of the forces of nature is ferocity.  A ferocious, blood-thirsty man goes beyond the ferocious animals.  If an animal tears another animal it is only for its daily food, but man destroys a hundred thousand lives in one day.  Hence it becomes evident that the power of nature is the unbridled and ungovernable ruler over man.  What is written concerning the "ego is always inclined to do evil" is no other than the fermentation of the passionate desires in the breast of man and the complete, unchecked sway of the carnal and natural forces over him.  Therefore, man cannot win victory over these physical forces save through the "power of the love of God".  The fire of the love of God is like unto the lightning which strikes upon the head of nature, emasculating it of its virility and leaving it fallen on the ground-a lifeless body.  Consequently the greatest power in the world of existence is the love of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 August 1914.
__________
... It is related that an aged and decrepit man became the guest of his holiness Abraham.  He exercised toward his guest the utmost hospitality and courtesy.  When dinner was served, his holiness Abraham uttered the name of God, and then started eating.  On the other hand, the guest uttered the name of an idol and began to eat.  His holiness was grieved, arose in wrath and rebuked his guest most severely.  But even as he did so, God's revelation descended upon him.  "O Abraham!  For a hundred years this man has been an idol-worshipper and I have been patient with him; I have nurtured him; I have protected him.  I have taken good care of him; I have trained him; I have showered on him many bounties and I have been kind and loving to him; but thou wert not able to endure his society for one night!  And I, an hundred years!"  His holiness Abraham was deeply touched by this address and begged his aged guest to pardon him.
A story told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá who said that it appeared in the Masnavi.  From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 4 July 1913.
__________
It is very strange that when a face is not illumined with the light of the love of God it is dark.  When you look into it the traces of the divine glad tidings are not manifest, but when the lights of God shine upon it, it becomes bright and enlightened, as it is said, "In their faces you shall see the verdancy of paradise, and in their countenances is the sign of worship."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 3 September 1913.
__________
The Bahá'ís in Baghdád are not rich, but they are firm and strong believers.  They keep the Nineteen Day feast.  One morning they sent to one of the believers the word that the feast would be held that night in his house.  He searched his pockets and there was no money.  What should he do?  He had only a watch which he had purchased for ten dollars.  He took it out of his waist pocket and sent it to the bazaar to be sold at auction.  Incidentally one of the Bahá'ís passing by recognized the watch.  He stopped and saw that it was going to be sold for two dollars.  He raised the price half a dollar and bought it.  He put it into his pocket and went home quietly.  When the night came, he went to the meeting and after the refreshments were served, he went to the host and taking the watch out of his pocket offered it to him as a present.  The host was very much surprised, but delighted.
Words of Mírzá Jalál, the son-in-law of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 30 August 1913.
__________
The duty of the believers of God is to be servants to one another and attend
page 144
to one another's wants.  I am the servant of the friends of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 5 August 1913.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá said the story of Mary and the ointment has a deep spiritual significance.  The bottle which contained perfumed oil (ointment) represents the heart of Mary.  The ointment is the love of God which filled her heart, and all this love she poured forth at the feet of Jesus.  Then Judas said, "Why did she lavish all this love upon Jesus, who did not need it so much as the poor?  Why did she not pour some of this great love and care upon them?"  Then Jesus said that she did well to give him all her love.
That is what we ought to do.  We must give all our heart's love to God, then for His sake and through our love for Him, we shall love all others.  By "the poor" in this sense, is meant those who needed love.  Bahá'u'lláh said.  "The poor among you are My trust."  Therefore we must always cherish the poor for his sake.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Notes of Miss Rosenberg, 'Akká, 1901.
__________
As long as ye can, strive to set aglow the hearts with love; be attracted to one another and be members of one body.  Every soul of the beloved ones must honour the others, and withhold not his possessions and life from them, and by all means he must endeavour to make the others joyous and happy.  But the others (the recipients of such love) must also be disinterested and life-sacrificing.  Thus may this sunrise flood the horizons, this melody gladden and make happy all the people, this divine remedy become the panacea for every disease, this spirit of reality become the cause of life for every soul.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Another commandment give I unto you!  That ye love one another as I love you.  Great mercy and blessings are promised to the people of your land, but on one condition; that their hearts be filled with the fire of love, that they live in perfect kindness and harmony, like one soul in different bodies, like one soul in different bodies.  If they fail in this condition, the great blessings will be deferred.  Never forget this:  Look at one another with the eye of perfection.  Look at me, follow me, be as I am.  Take no thought for yourselves or your lives,-whether ye eat, or whether ye sleep, whether ye are comfortable, whether ye are well or ill, whether ye have friends or foes.  For all of these things ye must not care at all.  Look at me and be as I am.  Ye must die to yourselves and to the world; so shall ye be born again and enter the kingdom of heaven.  Behold a candle, how it gives its light.  It weeps its life away, drop by drop, in order to give forth its flame of light.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From An Early Pilgrimage.


VIII:11, 27 September 1917
page 141
A prayer for the confirmation of the American Government
Revealed about the year 1900.
O God-O thou who art the confirmer of every just power and equitable empire in eternal glory, everlasting power, continuance, steadfastness, firmness and greatness!-strengthen, by the abundance of thy mercy, every government which acts rightly towards its subjects and every dominion that protects the poor and weak by its flag.
I ask thee, by the abundance of thy holiness and that of thy bounty, to assist this just government which hath stretched out the ropes of its tent to far and wide countries; the justice of which hath manifested its proofs throughout the well inhabited, cultivated and flourishing regions belonging to such government.
O God, strengthen its soldiers and flag, give authority and influence to its word and utterance, protect its territories and dominions, guard its reputation, make its renown widely spread, divulge its traces and exalt its flag by thy conquering power and wonderful might in the kingdom of creation.
Thou are the confirmer of whomsoever thou willest.
Verily, thou art the powerful and the almighty!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VIII:13, 4 November 1917
page 157
"This is the One whose meeting will be longed for by all those who dwell in the everlasting spiritual world, and who have taken a station for themselves in the tents of Abhá!"-From Súriy-i-Haykal.
The hundredth anniversary of the birth of Bahá'u'lláh
Bahá'u'lláh was born in Tihrán, Persia, on 12 November AD 1817.
[Items available in The Promulgation of Universal Peace were omitted.]
The dawning of a great light
A compilation of incidents from the life of Bahá'u'lláh.
Glad tidings of the Kingdom of Abhá!  We announce to you glad tidings of great joy!  Similar words were spoken almost two thousand years ago.
Reflect and be not of the heedless.  This is the great day of God.  This is the day of universal peace, of universal brotherhood, of a universal language and of the union of all religions.  This is the day wherein the prophecies of the
page 158
Holy Books of every tongue have been or are being fulfilled.  This is the cycle of Bahá'u'lláh.
We announce to you Bahá'u'lláh, "He whom God shall manifest", the one who has broken the seals of both the creational and collective books.
Words of the editor of a Minneapolis newspaper, as corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 29 July 1913.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh (whose given name was Husayn 'Alí), was the son of Mírzá 'Abbás, renowned as Mírzá Buzurg of Núr.  The Núrís are one of the well-known families of Mázindarán.  During the reigns of Qájár, the present Persian dynasty, the members of this family have usually occupied the highest positions in the state, such as Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary and other civil and military dignities:  Even at the present day most of them are in the Government.
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl:  The Bahá'í Proofs, p. 51.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh, when he was six years old, had a dream in which he saw himself swimming in a mighty ocean which was so great that he marvelled.  His hair, which was long, was floating out on the waves and soon he discovered that to each separate hair a fish was attached by its mouth, that is, the fish was holding the hair in its mouth.  There were large fish, small fish, white fish, black fish, in fact all kinds of fishes.
The impression he received was so vivid that he was awakened.  When he told his father in the morning the father decided to have the meaning if possible.  Being, as you know, a Grand Vazír, he applied to the Sháh, asking permission to have the dream interpreted by the court interpreter of dreams.  This was granted him.  When the interpreter had heard the dream he stood amazed.  He said, "This is a most wonderful dream, but I do not see how it can come true.  The ocean symbolizes the world; the fish are the people of the world who are to gain knowledge from this boy-knowledge of God.  You must protect and keep him, for he will be very great, but it is not possible that he can fulfil entirely such a wonderful dream.  How can the entire world receive knowledge of God from this boy?  However, this is what I see in this dream.  Protect him.  Keep and guard him.  He will be very great and will teach great and learned people as well as others."
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's wife given by Mrs H. E. Hoagg in a letter from Haifa, Syria, 1914.
__________
When I was a child and had not yet reached the age of maturity one of my brothers intended to marry in Tihrán and according to the custom of that country for seven days and nights they were engaged in feasting and banqueting.  The program for the last day of the entertainment for the guests was the play of Sultán Salím.  The ministers, the grandees and officials of the city were there in a great throng, and I was sitting in one of the galleries of the building, observing the scenes.  They raised a great tent in the middle of the court.  Representations of human forms only a few inches in height would come out of the tent and cry:  "The king is coming, arrange the seats in order."  Then other figures came out, sweeping the ground while a number were sprinkling the streets with water.  Then another figure was presented who was supposed to be the herald bidding the people be ready for review before His Majesty, the Sultán.
Then the ministers came, with hat and shawl, according to the Persian custom.  Others were present with clubs while a number of others were garbed as chamberlains, aides-de-camp, farráshs and executioners with instruments of punishment.  All these lined up according to their station and class.  At last the king appeared with sovereign power and
page 159
shining diadem upon his head and with splendour and glory walked slowly and majestically, and with perfect calmness, tranquillity and composure seated himself upon the throne.  At that moment the noise of the guns and the music of the national anthem was raised and the smoke surrounded the tent and king.  When the air was cleared it was seen that the king was on his throne and the ministers, the magistrates and secretaries had taken their places according to their rank.  Immediately a thief, captured by the police, was brought before the king and a royal order was issued to behead him.  Then the chief of the executioners took the captive and decapitated him and a red fluid which was like blood was seen by all the spectators.  While the Sultán was consulting with some of his ministers the news was brought in that a certain person had become a rebel.  The Sultán issued orders that several regiments of soldiers and artillerymen be sent to the scene to quell the disturbance.  After a few minutes the thunderous noise of guns and artillery was heard behind the tent and we were told they were engaged in battle.  I became astonished and bewildered at these affairs.  Then the review ended and the curtain descended.
After twenty minutes a man came out from behind the tent with a box under his arm.  I asked him, "What is this box?  Where are the king and all the men?"  He answered that all these great things and manifest objects, such as kings, princes and ministers, glory, majesty, power and sovereignty which we beheld were enclosed in this box.
I declare by the Lord who has created all things through his Word that from that day all the conditions of this world and its greatness have been like that play before my eyes.  It has not nor will ever have the weight of a mustard seed.  I wondered greatly that the people should glorify themselves in these affairs.  Notwithstanding this, the people of insight will discern with the eye of certainty the end of the glory of every great one before beholding it.
Bahá'u'lláh in a letter to the Sultán of Turkey.
page 160
__________
The Báb had proclaimed the dawn of the great light and the new cycle of reality on 23 May 1844.  That same night 'Abbás Effendi ('Abdu'l-Bahá) was born.  Bahá'u'lláh for eight years summoned the people of Persia to the new movement.  He travelled to and fro:  "He arose with mighty resolution, and engaged with the utmost constancy in systematizing the principles and consolidating the ethical canons" of the new spiritual society.  "He displayed in assemblies, meetings, conferences, inns, mosques and colleges a mighty power of utterance and exposition.  Whoever beheld his open brow or heard his vivid addresses perceived him with the eye of actual vision to be a patent demonstration of the new life and a pervading influence."
A great number both of rich and poor and many prominent doctors of theology were "filled with amazement and astonishment at the seething and waving of the ocean of his utterance" and were so attracted by the Holy Spirit shining through his spiritual persuasions that "they washed their hands of heart and life" and when the persecutions came "laid down their lives under the sword dancing (with joy)."
Notes by compiler; quotations from A Traveller's Narrative, translated by Prof. E. G. Browne, Cambridge, England.
page 161
__________
The Blessed Beauty of Abhá (Bahá'u'lláh)-may the divine souls of the existence be a ransom to his friends!-endured personally, all kinds of calamities and bore the most violent ordeals.  There remained no torture which did not come to his holy body, and no suffering which did not descend upon his pure spirit.  How many nights he could not take rest under the chains and heaviness of fetters and how many days he gave himself not a minute's repose because of the burden of fetters and chains!
From Níyávarán to Tihrán that pure spirit, who was brought up on a bed of down, was forced to run, with bare head and bare feet, under chains and fetters, and, in a dark and narrow subterranean prison, he was placed with murderers, thieves, criminals, malefactors; at every moment a new torture was inflicted upon him and at every moment his martyrdom was expected by all.
After a long time, he was sent from the city of his residence to foreign countries.  For many years in Baghdád at every moment a new arrow was darted toward his holy breast, and at every instant a sword was bent on his pure body.  At no instant was there any hope for safety and security, and the enemies, with utmost dexterity, were attacking the blessed soul from all sides, and he, alone, personally resisted them all.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh spent many days in the utmost poverty.  During the term of his imprisonment in Tihrán, his daily ration was one loaf of bread only.  According to the opinion of some people it is impossible to imagine greater poverty than this!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 26 March 1914.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh (writing in later years) in one of his poems:  "The mark of the chain is yet visible on my neck and the impress of the fetters can be seen around my ankles!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 1 March 1914.
__________
When Bahá'u'lláh was imprisoned and chains were around his neck, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, then eight years old, was with some of the believers in another place.  The people finally captured him also.  The boys of this place gathered together and began to beat him; about two or three hundred children surrounded him.  They beat him severely on the head, cursed him and otherwise persecuted him.
From Notes of Mrs I. D. Brittingham, taken at Haifa, in 1901.
__________
Another incident:  "We found 'Abbás Effendi ('Abdu'l-Bahá) surrounded by a band of boys who had undertaken personally to molest him.  He was standing in their midst as straight as an.  arrow-a little fellow, the youngest and smallest of the group-firmly but quietly commanding them not to lay their hands upon him, which, strange to say, they seemed unable to do."
Words of the sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Abbas Effendi, His Life and Teachings, p. 14.
page 162
__________
When I was a small boy in Tihrán, I remember whenever two of the believers of God desired to meet each other they could not do it during the day time, so a time was set for the evening, between sunset and midnight.  They were so persecuted that if they met each other in the bazaar, they would not show any sign of recognition.  The meetings were held at midnight.  One of the believers acted as a guard and watched the street so that they might not be seen by any strangers.  The guard looked continually to the left and right, in order not to be detected by the night police.  At that time, all the inhabitants of Persia thought that the fire of the cause was entirely extinguished, that all traces of internal growth were effaced.  Every one who was known as a Bahá'í was arrested, thrown into prison, and then killed and their possessions pillaged and their houses destroyed. ...
In reality those were days of self-sacrifice, days of great tests, days of matchless heroism, days of spirituality, days of complete severance, days of attraction and enkindlement, days of divine bliss and beatitude.  The material conditions were made subservient to the spiritual laws.  The believers were filled with the Spirit.  Although they walked on the surface of the earth, yet they were living in the Supreme Concourse.  It is impossible to find souls more attracted, more severed, more self-sacrificing than they were!
When Bahá'u'lláh was thrown into the dungeon, there were many other believers arrested and imprisoned at the same time.  They were arranged in two rows, one opposite the other.  Their feet were shackled, their hands manacled, their necks chained.  The prison being an underground room, it was so pitch dark that they could not see each other's face.  The Blessed Perfection was in the right row and in order to keep up their spirits, he taught them two verses, each line to be chanted in turn by the two rows during the evenings.  Their loud, clear voices, singing in unison, pierced through the impenetrable darkness of the jail and ascended to the very throne of the Almighty.  The first row would sing:  "He is my Guardian and the Guardian of all creatures!" and the opposite row would cry out:  "Sufficient unto us is God, and to this we bear witness!"  There was such exultation and serene happiness in the awful darkness of the jail that it was illumined with the Light of the Kingdom of Abhá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 22 June 1914.
__________
In every dispensation a number of sanctified souls have become manifest who were self-sacrificing, severed from all else save God, forbearing sufferings and tribulations, accepting hardships and persecutions, welcoming tortures and death for the sake of truth.  But in none of the past dispensations have there been such heroic and sublime instances of devotion and martyrdom as in this Bahá'í Cause!  At the time when all the inhabitants of Tihrán had arisen against this Cause and the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh) was arrested and thrown into prison, I was a very young child.  The jail wherein Bahá'u'lláh was imprisoned was a dark and gloomy cell underground, and had no aperture, no window save a small door.  When the door was unlocked one had to descend many rickety steps before reaching the gloomy, stuffy ground floor.  The name of the jailer was Áqá Buzurg, and he was an inhabitant of the city of Qazvín.  As in the past he had received many favours, bounties and kindnesses from the beloved hands of Bahá'u'lláh, he came one day to our house and took me with him to see my father.  Descending half the stairs of the cell, I peered through the darkness to try and see someone.  Everything was pitch darkness.  Suddenly I heard the wonderful, resonant voice of the Blessed Perfection:  "Take this child away!  Do not let him come in!"  Obeying the words of Bahá'u'lláh,
page 163
the jailer took me out and said:  "Sit down here and be patient.  About noon the prisoners are taken out, and then you can see your father!"  I sat there.  A little after twelve o'clock they brought the prisoners out and among them I saw the Blessed Perfection.  A thick heavy chain called Qará-Guhar, the heaviest and thickest chain of the time, was placed about his holy feet, the end of which dragged along the ground.  His neck was also chained with heavy fetters and his hands manacled.  Mírzá Mahmúd-a most wonderful Bahá'í-was the fellow-prisoner of Bahá'u'lláh.  They were chained together.  A common, ordinary felt hat, the top of which was worn out and the fringe torn and soiled, was on his blessed head.  I cannot describe to you the pain and anguish that attacked and tortured me by this sight of the Manifestation!
[The compiler wishes to state just here that anguish personified, the vibrations of which pierced every listener as a two-edged sword, marked 'Abdu'l-Bahá's address as he told of this same event, while he was in San Francisco.  Never shall it be forgotten by those who were blessed by listening to his voice, even if it was such a saddened occasion.]
In short, the fiendish cruelties of the authorities reached to such a height as to divide a large number of the believers among the various classes of the inhabitants of Tihrán, so that these people might martyr them according to their own devilish desires.  For example, a believer was given to the government clerks, another to the policemen, another to the infantry, another to the ulamás, another to the dervishes, another to the butchers-one to the members of each craft and profession-so that all of them might lend a hand in shedding the blood of these innocent Bahá'ís.  For instance, a believer was given to the cavalry.  These ferocious beasts took him to Sabzih-Maydán and about one thousand of them riding on their horses, with drawn swords attacked him from all sides.  The body was actually cut into a thousand small pieces, and yet they did not give up.  The sight of blood maddened them, and turned them into wild, dancing savages, thirsting for more blood.  Finally the executioner called out to them:  "O ye madmen!  Stop!  It is enough!  Nothing is left of the body.  I must take these small shreds and pieces and bury them.  Do not add more to the horrors of my task!"  At this juncture a restaurant keeper arrived on the scene and asked the executioner to let him have the remains of the "accursed Bahá'í", because he would burn them in his stove and by this act gain his entrance into Paradise. ...  Those were the days of miraculous deeds, matchless heroism, unsurpassable firmness and divine courage.  Each one of the believers while walking upon the earth, was at the same time soaring toward the Supreme Concourse.  They were the angels of the Kingdom of Abhá and the spiritual heroes of the arena of unparalleled sacrifice.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 22 February 1914.
__________
When Bahá'u'lláh was imprisoned in Tihrán, the Russian ambassador went about twenty times to the Sháh to plead in his behalf, saying:  "This man has no fault.  He is faultless.  Why do you imprison him!"  The Sháh answered that Bahá'u'lláh must be punished because he had ordered an attack on his life.  The Ambassador said:  "That is not a reasonable supposition, for if he had ordered such an attempt he would have ordered a bullet put in the gun instead of merely powder and small shot."  The Sháh acknowledged this reasoning, but was determined to hold Bahá'u'lláh responsible so as to have a pretext for keeping him in prison.
Again and again the Russian ambassador went to talk with the Sháh about the matter, and at last the Sháh confessed that he was afraid of the influence of Bahá'u'lláh, and that if he should set
page 164
him free, it would create a great tumult among the people.
The Ambassador answered:  "If then, you fear him so much, why keep him in Tihrán; would it not be better to exile him to Baghdád?"  This was accordingly done.
Daily Lessons Received in Acca, January 1908, p. 58.
__________
When the Blessed Perfection and his family were exiled from Persia, all along our way from Tihrán to Baghdád we did not find a believer, only a handful of despondent friends were in Baghdád.  All the people firmly believed that with the exile of Bahá'u'lláh the fire of this Cause would become extinct.  Were they not wrong in their reckonings?  How many houses were pillaged!  How many people were exiled!  How many were thrown into prison!  How many thousands were killed!  And yet they did not succeed in their fiendish work of extermination!  For this Cause is constantly reinforced by the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse, and no army, no matter how invulnerable, can defeat the phalanxes of the Kingdom!
About thirty years ago, no one heard the name of the Bahá'í Cause in 'Ishqábád; but now the dome of the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, like a radiant jewel, glitters under the rays of the sun! ...  Praise be to God that it has become evident and known to all that the Bahá'ís are free from any intrigues and seditions.  They confer life and not death! ...  The people of Persia looked on the Bahá'ís as the enemies of their religion, possessions and life, and consequently they considered one of the holiest duties the extermination of this sect.  Well do I remember when still a child and in Tihrán, one day I entered the Mosque and saw a fanatical Mullá haranguing the crowd:  "O people!  If you love God, kill the Bábís; if you wish the descent of the blessings of the Almighty, kill the Bábís, and if you want to protect your hearts and possessions, your wives and families, kill the Bábís!"  So ingrained was the enmity of the Muslims against this wronged community. ...  On the other hand, Bahá'u'lláh compelled the Bábís to non-resistance and taught them day and night to adorn themselves with the qualities of holiness and sanctity, and commanded them to be meek and holy.  He said:  "It is better for you to be killed than to kill!"  He exhorted them to be faithful, to be kind toward all the nations, to deal sincerely with all the people, to characterize themselves with mercy, benevolence, clemency and charity and to exert themselves at all times to serve the world of humanity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 17 February 1914.
Exiled in Baghdád
No one can ever imagine even faintly how we were surrounded from all sides by test and trials in the nascent stage of the Cause.  When we were exiled from Persia, outwardly the means of happiness were completely lacking; we did not have even our daily necessities.  Notwithstanding all this whenever I think of this time my heart is filled with exultation.
For eleven years we lived in Baghdád.  The heat of that place was very intense, yet we were most happy, because we were assisted in serving at the Holy Threshold.  One cannot experience a greater amount of heat than in Baghdád; at that time the summers were unbearable.  We were strangers and penniless, yet our joy was supreme.  The trip from Tihrán to Baghdád and the days spent in Baghdád in the presence of the Blessed Perfection are very vivid in my memory
page 165
and shall never be forgotten.  Those days were overflowing with joy and fragrance.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Mírzá Yahyá or Subh-i-Azal, the younger half brother, whom Bahá'u'lláh in his love had taught most tenderly, became ambitious for prominence in the wonderful movement the Báb had started.  He was encouraged by a temporary leadership which the Báb had entrusted to him.  He lacked courage, however, and when the persecutions broke out fled in disguise to Baghdád, where he began to oppose the pure and glorious Bahá'u'lláh and claimed that he himself was the great teacher whom the Báb had foretold, "Him whom God should manifest."  Other followers of the Báb also made similar claims.  With these claims they evidently stirred up quite a commotion and Bahá'u'lláh, always a man of peace, withdrew for two years into the mountains and let them do the teaching.  But the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, which are quoted a few paragraphs below, show how powerless these claimants were to quicken the spirits and purify the lives of those to whom Bahá'u'lláh had brought the very water of life.  When their failure to produce in their hearers the fruits of righteousness was apparent Bahá'u'lláh returned that through the radiance of his spirit he might bring them back from death into life.
Later when Bahá'u'lláh felt compelled to proclaim that God had called him to be the teacher of world-unity whom the Báb had announced, he enclosed in the envelope with his own proclamation a letter of Subh-i-Azal's.  These he sent without a word of comment and let the readers judge from the comparative spiritual power of the two letters which had the sanction of God's Holy Spirit.
Almost everyone accepted Bahá'u'lláh.  Subh-i-Azal thus defeated descended to intrigues and for many years carried on intrigues against his glorious brother.  Some writers in the West failing to probe the disguise of Subh-i-Azal's pretended goodness have tried to justify him.  But the great higher critic, Prof. T. K. Cheyne, has proved beyond the shadow of a question the futility and emptiness of all Subh-i-Azal's claims.  A few years ago Subh-i-Azal's own son seeing how Bahá'u'lláh had now proved his greatness and divine power by bringing multitudes of those divergent races and sects into a new life of brotherhood and love became a devoted follower of Bahá'u'lláh.
Note by compiler.
__________
During the first years of our stay in Baghdád, Bahá'u'lláh suddenly departed for the mountains of Sulaymáníyyih.  At that time we did not know his whereabouts at all and so it happened that there was no one to teach the Cause or muster the scattered Bahá'í forces.  The fire of search was almost extinguished and the interest of the public waned.  There was no one to assuage the fear of the few or attract the hearts of the many.  The voice of divine authority was hushed and the thunders and lightnings of spiritual revelations did not roll and flash across the heavenly track.  Mírzá Yahyá, who claimed to be the vicegerent of the Báb, always fearing his own shadow, was concealing himself in a thousand hiding-places.  Completely disguised and under the assumed name of Hájí 'Alí, he travelled like a dervish between Baghdád and Basra.  In order to hide his identity from the public he had hung on a string a few red and yellow Arabian slippers, which he sold to the people while walking through the streets and bazaars.
At this juncture, two young men from Mílán came to Baghdád.  They were enkindled believers and they brought cheer and happiness to our despondent and sorrowing hearts.  It was then a long time that we had had no news from the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh).  The fire of spirituality and activity was put out of every soul.  The hearts were be-
page 166
wildered and the spirits drooped.  No amount of exertion whatever could in the least stir to courage or self-sacrifice the spirits of the few remaining, fearful Bahá'ís.  At that time I was very young.
These two new believers from Mílán came and knocked at the door.  I went and opened it.  I observed that they were two young men from Mílán.  Their faces were luminous, their eyes radiant.  They were shining like unto two suns.  I asked them to come in. ...  After awhile they asked about the Cause.  I told them that the Cause was extinct, there was no Cause.  They asked about Mírzá Yahyá.  I told them he was concealed and no one knew his whereabouts.  They asked about Bahá'u'lláh.  I told them I did not know where he was.  As soon as they heard this sad news they looked at each other and began to weep and weep.  For nearly one hour they sat on the floor and wept bitter tears of regret and disappointment.  I tried to console them but I could not succeed:  My own heart was sad when I realized the chaotic condition of the Cause and the absence of any life.  Then they arose from their seats; without any remarks they left the house.  They did not leave any address and I never heard from them afterwards.
How different it is now!  The banner of the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is waving over all the regions.  The power of the Most Great Name is felt by all the nations of the world.  The glad tidings of the Kingdom are proclaimed to all the religions of the world.  The potency of the Holy Spirit is moving the hearts of men, and the fearless teachers of the Cause are spreading the Gospel of salvation both in the East and in the West.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 3 February 1914.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh departed to Sar-Galú alone.  Nobody knew just where he was, even we were not informed.  Two years he passed at Sar-Galú.  Some of the time he passed in the mountains, some of the time in grottoes, and some of the time in the city of Sar-Galú.  Although solitary and alone, nobody knowing him, yet all through Kurdistán he became well known.  It was said, "This unknown person is a most remarkable person, is exceedingly learned, is possessed of a tremendous power, and has a colossal force."  All Kurdistán was magnetized by his love.  But Bahá'u'lláh was passing his time in poverty and even his robes and clothes were those of the poor; his food was that of the indigent.  The signs of severance were manifest upon him as the sun at mid-day, and he was absolutely careless regarding his life.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Once I was in the presence of Bahá'u'lláh.  He was reading some of the writings of the Master ('Abdu'l-Bahá).  After reading every line he would praise it and express the highest commendation saying:  "We have never taught the Master, yet he writes with such deep penetration and inspiration; but we are daily teaching his brothers, and they are copying the holy tablets all the time, but they cannot write correctly one letter."
Words of Hájí Muhammad, one of the early Oriental Bahá'ís:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 November 1913.
__________
Although he ('Abdu'l-Bahá) had not studied in any school, yet, from his youth, fountains of knowledge flowed in his fluent explanations.  The first trace which emanated from his holy being in the world of knowledge was the treatise he wrote in his early youth at Baghdád.  This was a commentary upon the holy tradition:  "I was an invisible Treasury; as I loved to be known therefore I created men to know Me."  He wrote this commentary in answer to the request of one of the Pashas.  The author (Abu'l-Fadl) was present at a meeting when some one asked Hájí Siyyid Javád
page 167
-i-Tabátabá'í of Karbilá concerning the life of Bahá'u'lláh.  The great Siyyid answered:  "That holy being must be a shining light whose great son hath written such a treatise during his childhood."
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl:  The Bahá'í Proofs, p. 49-50.
__________
During these years 'Abbás Effendi was accustomed to frequent the mosques and argue with the doctors and learned men.  They were astonished at his knowledge and acumen and he came to be known as the youthful sage.  They would ask him, "Who is your teacher, where do you learn the things which you say?"  His reply was that his father had taught him.  Although he had never been a day in school, he was as proficient in all that was taught as well-educated young men, which was the cause of much remark among those who knew.
In appearance my brother was at this time a remarkably fine-looking youth.  He was noted as one of the handsomest young men in Baghdád.
Sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Quoted from 'Abbás Effendi, by Myron H. Phelps.
__________
Once when I lived in Baghdád I was invited to the home of a poor thorn-picker.  In Baghdád the heat is even more intense than in Syria and it was a very hot day.  But I walked twelve miles to the thorn-picker's hut.  Then his wife made a little cake out of some meal for me, and burnt it in cooking it.  Still that was the best reception I ever attended.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Miss Juliet Thompson.
__________
When we were living in Baghdád according to the custom of that country we slept on the roof during the summer months.  I always commenced sleeping on the roof one month earlier than any one else and stayed one month and a half longer at the end of the season.  The members of the family always insisted that I should come down because it was getting too cold; but I did not listen to them.  I loved the perfect quietness, the mystic silence, the awe-inspiring, heavenly scene!  Long after midnight I would get up, commune with God in spirit and watch the stars circling in their majestic spheres.  There was such spirituality in that Eastern silence that whenever I think of it I feel myself transported to those divine nights of concentration and contemplation!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 25 March 1914.
__________
I was asleep upon my couch; the breaths of my Lord, the Merciful, passed over me and awakened me from my sleep and commanded me to proclaim between earth and heaven.  This was not on my part but on His part, and to this bear witness the denizens of the realms of His power and His Kingdom and the dwellers of the cities of His glory and Himself the Truth.
The gales of the All-knowing, the All-glorious passed by me and taught me the knowledge of what hath been. ...  I have not studied these sciences which men possess nor have I entered the colleges.
This (Bahá'u'lláh) is a leaf which the breezes of the will of thy Lord the Mighty, the Extolled have stirred.  Can it be still when the rushing winds blow? ...  Verily, I was not save as one dead in the presence of His command, the hand of thy Lord, the Merciful, turning me.
Thou knowest, O God, that in every action, I desire nothing save Thy affairs, and that in every utterance I seek naught but Thy celebration; neither doth my pen move except I desire therein Thy good pleasure and the setting forth of what Thou hast enjoined upon me by Thy authority.
page 168
Thou seest me, O God, confounded in Thine earth.  If I tell what Thou hast enjoined on me, Thy creatures turn against me; if I forsake what Thou hast enjoined on me for Thy part, I should be far removed from the gardens of nearness to Thee.  (Wherefore) I advance toward Thy good pleasure, turning aside from what the souls of Thy servants desire, accepting what is with Thee and forsaking what would remove me afar off from the retreats or nearness to Thee and the heights of Thy glory.  For Thy love I flinch not from aught and
page 169
for Thy good pleasure I fear not all the afflictions of the world.  This is but through Thy strength and Thy might, Thy grace and Thy favour, not because I am deserving thereof.
From a letter to the Sháh of Persia.  Bahá'u'lláh's account of God's call ringing in his inmost consciousness bidding him arise and announce himself the one whom the Báb had foretold.
__________
During this time (the time of the Báb's banishment and imprisonment) Bahá'u'lláh was constantly engaged in the promulgation of the Cause of God; but without proclaiming himself or making known his station.  Some, but few, among his friends, the early disciples, discovered that he was the one of whom the Báb spoke-"He whom God shall manifest."  Although Bahá'u'lláh was of royal lineage, and not of the scholastic or learned, the people naturally looking for this Promised One among the divines, yet his marvellous discourses astonished the wise and learned and they who were pure in heart saw in him the fulfilment of their hopes.1
Bahá'u'lláh well prepared the people for the coming of the great event, namely, his declaration, which took place in the Garden of the Ridván,-outside the city of Baghdád.  During twelve days he made his mission known to his disciples, and inasmuch as this great event occurred in the Garden of the Ridván the greatest of Bahá'í feasts is called after that garden in commemorating the twelve days.
Flowers from the Rose Garden of Acca, p. 26.
__________
In Baghdád I was a child nine years old.  There and then he (Bahá'u'lláh) announced to me the Word, and I believed him.  As soon as he proclaimed to me the Word I threw myself at his holy feet and implored and supplicated him to accept this one drop of blood as a sacrifice in his pathway.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 January 1914.
__________
This is a blessed day (the ninth day of the Ridván), a happy and joyous day.  The beauty, the holiness and the significance of these days are not known now.  This is the time of gladness, bliss and ecstasy for the believers of God because we have lived during the days of the Blessed Perfection and have experienced the great joy of these days.  Their celebration by us is always shaded with a recollection, but for those who have not seen Bahá'u'lláh with their physical eyes these days will be celebrated with a genuine rejoicing and a most thorough preparation.  The beauty, the sheer joy, the exhilaration of the golden Ridván days are now brought back to my memory and in reviewing them I find each day a perfect gem of spiritual rapture.
During the nights of those days we could not sleep because we fancied in our minds the unparalleled joy of meeting Bahá'u'lláh in the morning, standing in his presence, receiving his graces, and listening to his words.  It was on the ninth day that the Blessed Perfection leaving Baghdád stayed in the Garden of Hajíb Páshá before starting for Constantinople.  It is impossible to describe with words the beatific vibrations with which we were surrounded in those days.  Although to all outward appearances the Blessed Perfection was in exile, yet he moved with such power and manifested such majesty!  The list of visitors calling on him during these ten days looks rather like the roll call of an army.  Those who had never seen him while he lived in Baghdád called.  All the leaders of the
page 170
community, the officers of the army, and of the government paid a visit.  Even the Governor, Najíb Páshá, called and Bahá'u'lláh did not return these rather important calls.  Were one to reflect for a moment he would realize that such great events have never occurred in the history of the past dispensations!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 30 April 1914.
Life in the Most Great Prison
The government of Persia said:  "As long as Bahá'u'lláh is in Persia the country will not be at peace.  When Bahá'u'lláh is exiled from Persia the country will then find peace.  He shall no longer be connected with this country; all communications with him shall be suspended."  So the Sháh of Persia endeavoured until he succeeded in expelling the Blessed Perfection to Constantinople, and from Constantinople to Roumelia.  Communication with him had to be in secret, but still the Cause spread, and they said:  "Day by day his lamp becomes brighter, his potency becomes greater.  The cause of this spreading is due to the populous cities to which he is sent.  Therefore it is better to send him to a penal colony where he may be considered as a suspect, that the people may know he is in the prison of murderers and highway robbers; and in a bad climate he and his followers may perish."  Therefore the King of Persia, Násiri'd-Dín, Sháh, endeavoured until he succeeded in having him transported to the prison of 'Akká.
But the banishment of Bahá'u'lláh, the Blessed Perfection, instead of resulting in the extermination of the Cause in the country proved just the contrary; the Cause was spread more rapidly; the fame became more widely circulated; the teachings of the Blessed Perfection became more widely promulgated in Persia.  Through the power of God he was able to hoist his banner.  If at first it was a lamp, it became a flame.  If it was a star, it became a mighty sun.  The fame of the Cause of the Blessed Perfection went as far as the East and the West.
He paid no attention to the ministers and viziers.  The Governor-in-Chief of 'Akká craved to be honoured by admission to the presence of Bahá'u'lláh.  For five years this one man, called Díyá Páshá, asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá if he would supplicate the Manifestation to permit him to make this visit, but the Manifestation never granted it.  All the people of 'Akká know this.  The Blessed Perfection was imprisoned, yet he had that power to refuse anything or to do anything he wished.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Whosoever reads the Book of Haykal (Súriy-i-Haykal) can observe the tremendous and colossal power of Bahá'u'lláh.  He addressed the kings from the prison, each individually, summoning all to the oneness of humanity, and the most great peace, arraigning some, and predicting what would happen in their kingdoms, and these predictions have come to pass!
Some of the kings exhibited pride, one was the Ottoman king, 'Abdu'l-Ázíz Khán.  When Bahá'u'lláh was a prisoner in his kingdom, he addressed him very critically, and literally did it come to pass.
Another was the French emperor.  The Emperor of France did not send any reply, then a second epistle was sent to him.  It was addressed to Napoleon the Third, saying, "I wrote you an epistle before, and I summoned you to a cause, but you heeded it not.  You proclaimed once that you were a defender of the oppressed, but it becomes evident that you are not; rather, you magnify your own selfish desires and passions.
page 171
You advocate your own interests, and this pride of yours is supported by your empire and sovereignty.  Because of your arrogance, God will shortly destroy your sovereignty and a revolution shall be set up in that kingdom, and the reins of government shall be taken from your hands, and in the utmost of debasement and degradation will you be cast, and now surely I see you in degradation.  Soon it shall be manifested!  The river Rhine will be the place of your humiliation and mourning, and the women will bemoan the loss of their sons."  Such was the arraignment which was sent.  It has been published and sent abroad.
Similar addresses were directed to other kings.  And this he accomplished within a prison which was beyond human endurance, and all that he wrote or declared came to pass.  It became evident and manifest, no one could hinder it.  Some have not yet come to pass; they will occur later.
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From address given in Washington, D.C., 10 May 1912.
__________
In spite of all difficulties Bahá'u'lláh was ever in an exalted state; his face shone continually.  He had the presence of a king.  One cannot imagine any one with more majesty.  One would have said that he was enjoying the greatest comfort.  He drew his strength from divine powers, which always triumph.  Minds were exalted on beholding him, and Bahá'u'lláh never hid himself.  He spoke courageously before all.  "He is incomparable," declared the people, "but he is setting himself against Islám.  Such an one is an honour to humanity," they said, "but a detriment to our religion; therefore we must declare ourselves against him!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
It was in all probability the second month of the summer when one early morning the steamer anchored off the shore of Haifa.  Altogether we were seventy-seven persons.  After sunrise we landed at Haifa, and hardly three or four hours had passed before a large sailing boat was brought into commission by the authorities, in which they were going to carry us back to 'Akká.  The baggage was taken on board, and immediately afterward all of us were taken off.  It was about 4 p.m. when we reached 'Akká.
As we entered the place we found the inhabitants of 'Akká, without exception, sickly looking people of sallow, yellow complexion, a good many unable to walk and hence strewn on the narrow streets.  Even the soldiers and officers, who possessed privileges, looked ill.  In fact, a number of the soldiers, that is, those who were ordered to guard us, were very sick and I began treating them at once.
'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
That night we were kept by the soldiers who guarded us entirely without food.  Two sentries were placed at the door and we were forbidden to go to the market to buy anything.  The moth-
page 172
ers not having eaten, had no milk for their babies; the young children were famishing and the bodily sufferings of all of us were very great.  But we were so happy in spite of all our miseries, and Khanom (the speaker) especially laughed so much that the Blessed Perfection sent a messenger to us to say, "Do not laugh so much, or the soldiers will say, 'Listen to those foolish people enjoying themselves and laughing with nothing to eat.'"
The day following the governor sent us some rice, but it was very bad rice, unwashed, and full of stones.  The children were very happy when they saw food, and crowded around the tables.  But when it was cooked, it was so black and dirty it made them sick, and they could not eat it.  Then the Manifestation came to us and said, "Do not cry; I have made some food for you."  He gave each of the children one sugar-plum.  When they had eaten these they all went to sleep, quite peacefully and contentedly.
The weather was extremely hot, the water was bad, the prison ration coarse black bread, so that in those days many of us felt sick, and it was not long afterward when everyone became ill, except 'Abdu'l-Bahá and another believer, Áqá Rizá Shírází, and these two nursed us through.
Díyá'íyyih Khánum, daughter of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
When we arrived in 'Akká it was found there were not enough rooms in the barracks to imprison us separately, so they put us all in two rooms with no furniture at all.  The court of the barracks had a most gloomy aspect.  There were three or four fig trees on the branches of which several ominous owls screeched all night.  Every one got sick, and there were neither provisions nor medicine.  At the entrance of the barracks there was a morgue.  It was a horrible looking room, yet I lived there two years in the utmost happiness.  Up to that period I had not had time to read the Qur'án from first to last, but then I had ample time and used to read this Holy Book with fervour and enthusiasm.
Going over the incidents and events of the lives of former Prophets, and finding how parallel they were with ours, I was consoled and encouraged.  I would read for instance, the following verse:
"How thoughtless are the people!  Whenever a Prophet is sent to them, they either ridicule him or persecute him."  And then I would read this verse:  "Verily, Our Host is victorious over them."  I was very happy all the time, because I was a free man.  Shut off in that room, my spirit travelled throughout the immensity of space.
The soul of man must be happy no matter where he is.  One must attain to that condition of inward beatitude and peace-then outward circumstances will not alter his spiritual calmness and joyousness.  No one can imagine a worse place than the barracks of 'Akká.  The surroundings were filthy and dirty, the treatment of the officials was unbearable, and we were looked upon as the enemies of religion and corruptors of morals.  The government had given an order that during our stay in 'Akká, no one must talk with us and we must not talk with each other.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
When the Purest Branch (Bahá'u'lláh's youngest son) fell from the roof and was killed, the believers were not allowed to bury him, but four soldiers came and took away the body, and the holy family did not know for two years whether it had been thrown into the sea or what the soldiers had done with it.  Naturally his mother was terribly sad and grieved at his death under such sad circumstances, and this sorrow made her so ill that it caused a disease of the heart, so that for a long time she was not able to walk about, but was obliged to sit on the bed.
However, when the Blessed Perfection said to her, "For my sake has this come upon him, and he has borne for me a sorrow and a trouble that was coming to me," from that day no one ever saw the mother weeping and she was always quite happy and cheerful.  This was be
page 173
cause of her faith and the strength of her spirit.
Díyá'íyyih Khánum, daughter of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Notes of Miss E. J. Rosenberg, Haifa, February-March 1901.
__________
In the first month two of us died, and we had no money to pay for the funeral expenses, so we sold the one remaining rug.  This money was also pocketed by the officials, and the two bodies thrown together in a hole outside of the town.
In the beginning, no one was allowed to leave the barracks without being accompanied by two or four guards.  But after six months or a year, when they saw that not a soul ever tried to escape they gave us greater freedom and the friends could go out in the bazaar to buy things, either followed by one soldier or none.
Sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 5 July 1914.
__________
Since that date consider how conditions have changed, and how every one of those who oppressed this party of exiles and endeavoured with might and main to suppress the spread of this light has become lost in the abyss of despair and oblivion.
They are gone and we are still here, whereas, from the standpoint of the world and human reason, it should have been reversed.  Everybody imagined that under the existing circumstances all this would end shortly and naught would be left of the Bahá'ís.  Is not this an evidence of divine protection and providence?  We have longed for death in the path of God; we have been ready to welcome the cup of sacrifice and were thirsty for the chalice of martyrdom.  The Lord willed that we stay and serve Him.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahai Bulletin-an early Bahá'í publication, p. 10.
__________
When two years had passed a regiment of soldiers was assigned to 'Akká.  Of course there was no other place for them to live except the barracks.  Therefore they had no other alternative but to turn us out.  All the time there was an inn in 'Akká which was inhabited by different people.  This inn became the hospice for the pilgrims in after years.
I went to the inn-keeper and said:  "As our number is large and there are several families in our party I desire to rent the inn as a whole, and if possible the present inmates may vacate and go elsewhere."  He gave his consent to my suggestion.  When after a few days I came back to draw up the papers and sign the documents I saw one of the rooms was still inhabited.  "Who is this?" I asked.  "He is the German consul," he answered.  "He must leave the premises," I said, "otherwise I will not rent the place.  It is impossible for an outsider to live here."  The inn-keeper looked at me with ridicule and contempt.  "Ha!  Ha!" he laughed, "and they say you are a prisoner!  Bah!  You talk to me as though you were my lord and master.  What do you think, Mr Prisoner-do you expect to get an exclusive palace in this prison town?  Not much!  Not much!  This man is a German consul; I cannot drive him out."
Finally the German consul left of his own accord and requested to come only two hours a day to attend to his official duties, to which proposition we assented cheerfully.
Then we began to repair the rooms.  One of the rooms was left unrepaired, because our small fund was exhausted.  The rooms then were assigned to various families and friends, and I chose the last one for myself.  This room was so damp that moss had grown on the walls and ceiling, and when it rained there were several cracks in the ceiling which gave free and welcome entrance to the rain.
The floor consisted of humid earth, a breeder of fleas.  I had a piece of mat and a long Persian fur coat.  It was my seat by day and my coverlet by night.  'When I covered myself with it an army
page 174
of fleas hiding in the ambuscade of the fur attacked me and tried their best to defeat me, but I defeated them by turning the coat and covering myself with the other side.  For one hour I slept, then the wily, indomitable fleas found their way again to the inner side.  Every night I had recourse to this manoeuvring eight or ten times.  Notwithstanding this I was far happier and more joyful at that time than now, sleeping on this fine bed!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 17 July 1913.
__________
When we were imprisoned in the military barracks of 'Akká there was a small primitive bath in which the Blessed Perfection took an occasional bath.  When the time arrived for our departure from the barracks we rented a very small house in the town.  It was a two-story house having two rooms on the lower and four rooms on the upper floor, but they were small indeed.
On the other hand, our party consisted of many people, and we wondered how all these souls could be accommodated in this small house.  Finally thirteen of us agreed to live in one room.  We lived and slept and worked in this one small room.  We lived in this house for well-nigh twenty years.  It so happened that although the house was small yet it contained some sort of a bath, and so the Blessed Perfection could use it as often as he wished.
At the end of twenty years we rented a much larger house, but it had no bath.  We went to Bahá'u'lláh and asked permission to build one.  The more I begged the stronger was his refusal.  I said:  "With only fifty pounds a little comfortable bath can be built."  But he did not give his consent.  Finally a month passed and I was quite worried.  At last I went to an Arab friend and borrowed from him two-hundred and fifty pounds at two per cent.
This money I took to a merchant who was in former times a grain dealer, but now out of work.  I said to him:  "We will enter into a partnership, I to furnish the capital, you the labour.  With this fund you will deal four months in grain.  After paying off all the expenses of rent, etc., and receiving your monthly salary, we will divide the net profit; one-third for you and two-thirds for me."  We entered into this agreement and engaged in business.  After four months we cleared our accounts.  I paid the debt with its two per cent, the merchant received his one-third of the net profit, all the other expenses were defrayed, and eighty pounds left in the balance for me.  With that sum then, I built a bath in the house which is kept intact to the present day.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 5 August 1913.
__________
The house of Bahá'u'lláh (in 'Akká) was, in the beginning, two houses.  At first the Blessed Perfection lived in one of them; after some years the other, fronting on the sea, was added to the first; and as they were built side by side, the partition was taken away.  Thus from the older house, Bahá'u'lláh moved into the newer one, which has a most sublime, uninterrupted view of the sea, and took the room the veranda of which I see from my window.  It is said that often in the mornings, and almost always in the afternoons, the Blessed Perfection used to walk on the veranda; the believers and pilgrims, knowing the custom, would come and walk in the neighbourhood and if he desired to see any of them he would beckon to them with his blessed hands.  It is now the room in the older house that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is living in.  Both houses are large, and although their architecture is not modern yet they are the best houses in 'Akká with regard to position, outward appearance and inside accommodations.
Mírzá Sohráb:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 9 December 1913.
page 175
__________
For nine consecutive years the Blessed Perfection did not put his feet outside the gate of 'Akká.  He was either imprisoned in the barracks or closely watched and guarded in the house.  The day of his departure from the town to the plain of 'Akká was considered the most important in the Bahá'í cause.  A prisoner he was, and according to the strict, royal farmán of 'Abdu'l-Ázíz he was to be jailed in a cell alone, not even one of us was to be allowed to see or to talk to him, and to leave the town of 'Akká was a matter strictly forbidden.  In brief, he was to be a life prisoner, with these deadly restrictions.
One day, while he was walking in the house, in the course of his conversation he said, "It is nine years since my eyes have beheld one blade of grass."  He loved the green pastures, verdant plains, blossoming trees and flowering spots; especially the prairie of 'Akká which was wonderfully green and carpeted with wild flowers during the months of spring.  For this reason he often remarked:  "The city is the world of bodies, the country is the world of spirits!"  Hearing these statements from the blessed lips of Bahá'u'lláh one day I took with me Núrí Bey, Hákki Bey and Mahmúd Effendi Túpchí -all three political prisoners and walked straight out of the gate into the plain of 'Akká.  The strange part of this strange proceeding was that while the guards were stationed on both sides of the gate they did not as much as lift one finger to prevent us from going out, which was of course the most natural thing for them to do.  On and on we walked, revelling in our new-found freedom, till we reached the present palace of Bahá'u'lláh (Bahjí).  Here they had just laid out an orchard wherein they had planted new apricot and peach trees.  The wind blowing through the branches stirred our hearts with a quick and new vibration.  It was a most ideal scene.  That day we walked and walked around the green country and then I returned to town.  Several days passed after this event, and then I gave a feast to the officials of the town under the pines near Bahjí.  This broke the bonds of incarceration, and from that time I was allowed to go out and walk as my inclination led me.
There lived in 'Akká a man by the name of Muhammad Páshá Safwat, who was most inimical to the Cause.  He had built a palace five or six miles outside the town.  Many days I searched for a suitable house to rent for the Blessed Perfection, but I could find nothing else but the palace of this man.  After much delay and postponement, through the confirmation of God I succeeded in renting this palace from him at £25 a year provided I might be allowed to repair the mansion with the rent of the first five years.  Having papered and furnished all the rooms I ordered the carpenters to make for me a carriage with a cover which was done in due time.  Having prepared everything and attended to every detail I went to the Blessed Perfection and said:  "A good mansion is made ready for you outside of 'Akká.  It is wonderfully situated and very charming.  From one side the lovely mountains and undulating valleys are seen; from another side there are large orange and mandarin orchards; the oranges, like unto red lanterns, shine and glow through the green boughs; from another side, verdant gardens and prairies full of narcissus and tulips are seen; the Mediterranean glistens in the distance; a stream of cool water flows in the centre; in brief, it is an ideal place.  I supplicate you to leave the town and live there."
The Blessed Perfection answered:  "I am a prisoner.  The prisoners are not allowed to go beyond the town of 'Akká."  I repeated my praises of the place and begged him to come out.  But to no avail.  Again he refused my request.  I did not want to go on with this insistence so I chose silence and left the Blessed Perfection's presence.
page 176
I thought a good deal over this matter, trying to find a solution to this problem.  Finally I decided to send for the Muftí, who loved Bahá'u'lláh and enjoyed freedom of conversation in his presence.  When he arrived I told him something had come which none of us was able to cope with save him.  He asked me what it was.  I said:  "We are all anxious that the Blessed Perfection should go out of town.  I have begged him twice, the believers have also entreated, but all have been refused.  This is thy work.  After sunset go thou to the house, knock at the door, and if they ask thee what thou dost want, say, 'I have come to meet Bahá'u'lláh.'  Thou must not leave his presence without his promise to go out."
As soon as he was given permission to enter the presence he went directly to him and threw himself at his holy feet, took hold of his blessed hands, and bluntly said:  "My Lord, why dost thou not go out.  The country is charming, the weather is delightful, the pastures are green, the water is cool and the palace is made ready."  The Blessed Perfection said to him:  "Mufti!  I am a prisoner!"  "O," he said, "You are not a prisoner.  You are free.  Everything depends upon your own will."  Again Bahá'u'lláh objected, but the Muftí did not let his hands go and insisted and insisted till the much-expected promise was given.  Coming out of the house the Muftí came to me and imparted to me the glad news.  I was overjoyed, so much so that I kissed his lips many times.  On the next day when I stood in the presence of the Blessed Perfection he smiled and said:  "What a tenacious man you sent to me!"  I said:  "Now you have given your promise to the Muftí that you will go out, the carriage is ready at the door. ..."  I rode with him through the streets of 'Akká and beyond the gate.  Then I alighted from the carriage and walked to the palace of Mazra'ih.  The Blessed Perfection was most pleased with the place.
It was about the middle of February, and in that month and in March the whole country was bedecked with flowers.  The plain of 'Akká was dancing with joy and the mountain, the valleys and gardens were intoxicated with the wine of happiness and were crying out, "O rapture!  O bliss!"  Those heavenly months and years were spent in the utmost rejoicing until it was found that the place was too small to accommodate the growing needs of the holy family.  Then there was another palace belonging to 'Abbúd and his family.  This was the palace of Bahjí.  'Abbúd and his children were sick and went into town.  I wanted to rent this palace from him; he wished to present it to me and insisted upon it.  Finally I rented it from him at £150 a year, and Bahá'u'lláh and the members of the holy family moved into it.  From that time on he lived in Bahjí and 'Akká, alternately, till the day of his departure dawned upon us and threw us into the depths of despair and sorrow.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 23 March 1914.
__________
Prof. Edward G. Browne of Cambridge University, England, whose speciality was Persian Literature and History, heard of the great spiritual awakening which was sweeping through Persia among a people that as he said "slumber in a sleep like unto that of death."
At last he was so much interested that he obtained a year's leave of absence and went to study at first-hand this remarkable spiritual renaissance.  He visited "the fountain head" of the movement in 'Akká.  He records his impression of Bahá'u'lláh as follows:
"Of the culminating event of this my journey some few words at least must be said.  During the morning of the day after my installation at Bahjí one of Bahá'u'lláh's younger sons entered the room where I was sitting and beckoned to me to follow him.  I did so, and was
page 177
conducted through passages and rooms at which I scarcely had time to glance to a spacious hall, paved, so far as I remember (for my mind was occupied with other thoughts) with a mosaic of marble.  Before a curtain suspended from the wall of this great antechamber my conductor paused for a moment while I removed my shoes.  Then, with a quick movement of the hand, he withdrew, and, as I passed, replaced the curtain; and I found myself in a large apartment along the upper end of which ran a low divan, while on the side opposite to the door were placed two or three chairs.  Though I dimly suspected whither I was going, and whom I was to behold (for no distinct intimation had been given to me), a second or two elapsed ere, with a throb of wonder and awe, I became definitely conscious that the room was not untenanted.  In the corner where the divan met the wall sat a wondrous and venerable figure, crowned with a felt head-dress of the kind called 'táj' by dervishes (but of unusual height and make), 'round the base of which was wound a small white turban.  The face of him on whom I gazed I shall never forget, though I cannot describe it.  Those piercing eyes seemed to read one's very soul; power and authority sat on that ample brow; while the deep lines on the forehead and face implied an age which the jet-black hair and beard flowing down in indistinguishable luxuriance almost to the waist seemed to belie.  No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as I bowed myself before one who is the object of a devotion and love which kings might envy and emperors sigh for in vain!"
Prof. E. G. Browne:  Quoted from A Traveller's Narrative.
__________
During the life of Bahá'u'lláh there lived in 'Akká an honourable gentleman from Europe.  He had heard much about the praise of the Ridván and expressed the wish to see the place.  Permission being granted, he came there one day with his family.  I prepared tea for them and showed them the utmost hospitality.  When they were going to leave in the evening, the gentleman left on the table a purse containing twelve pounds.  Realizing what he had done, I ran back to him and forced the money into his hands.  He urged me to accept it and I persisted in my refusal.  Seeing how useless was his insistence, he took it back, alighted from his carriage, took off his hat and shook my hands.  However, he went straight to the Blessed Perfection and said:  "I wished to give a small present to your gardener, but he would not accept it; it seemed it was too little for him."  When next I went to see him the Blessed Perfection addressed me:  "'Abdu'l-Kázim!  I have heard that thou didst not accept the present offered to thee by the European gentleman.  Why didst thou not accept it?"  "I?  Never will I accept anything from anyone while I am serving the Lord of mankind."  "Wilt thou accept something from me?"  "Yes, with the greatest honour!"  Then he showed me a small purse of Cashmere shawl and raising it up, he said:  "This contains only one pound, but it is from me.  Thou canst not realize how happy thou hast made me because thou didst manifest the wealth of the spirit.  Those who are in my service must be independent of all else save me."
'Abdu'l-Kázim, the gardener of the Ridván:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 4 January 1914.
__________
There are many kinds of roses, but this kind is the most fragrant.  The extract of rose is taken from this.  The Blessed Perfection always loved this species of roses.  Large bowls containing the same decorated the table of his room all the time.  The fragrance of this rose has a greatly refining effect upon the human constitution.  Bahá'u'lláh liked perfumes very much, and he always used the attar of roses.
The physical susceptibilities of the Blessed Perfection were very great.  His
page 178
sense of smell was very keen indeed, and also his eyesight, and up to the end of his life he read the finest type without the aid of glasses.
The holy divine Manifestations are even superior and distinguished in their physical powers from the rest of mankind!  For example, even when the Blessed Perfection was not feeling well, his pulse would beat regularly like the pulse of a young man twenty years old.  For the last three years of his life he hardly ate anything.  The servants brought the tray before him; he would look at the various dishes, eat a few mouthfuls, and then it was immediately removed; yet the pulse was normal.  At that time there was a Greek doctor who regularly called on the family whenever any of us was not feeling well.  One day he was allowed to stand in the presence of Bahá'u'lláh.  He looked into his face and his eyes, and asked permission to feel his pulse.  After due examination, the doctor expressed his astonishment, and said that he had never seen a constitution so highly sensitive as that of Bahá'u'lláh.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 5 March 1914.
__________
The greatest proof of the Blessed Perfection-may my life be a ransom to him!-consists in the fact that he was always manifest and evident under all conditions and circumstances.  He was never concealed nor was he disguised for one day.  In Persia, in Baghdád, in Constantinople, in Adrianople, and in the most great prison ('Akká), Bahá'u'lláh ever withstood the persecutions of the enemies and kept his own ground in the face of all the world.  He never attempted to protect or shield himself for one second.  Before all nations and all religions he proclaimed his Cause and declared his teachings.  The foes were resisting the spread of the Cause with the greatest hostility and his blessed breast was the target for an hundred thousand arrows.
Continually he was threatened with the darts and javelins of the adversaries.  He cried out, "We have burned away the veil and the shroud and are enkindled with the fire of love.  Like unto the candle we are set aglow and like unto the Beloved we are ever present in the gatherings of the lovers."  It is well-nigh beyond belief that notwithstanding all these dangers the Blessed Perfection was protected.  The condition was like that of a deer; although surrounded by a hundred thousand hounds attacking it from every side yet it is protected by an invisible power.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 7 March 1914.
__________
In an Arabic poem, the Blessed Perfection said about the calamities and allegations heaped upon him:  "In every moment they inflict upon me the wound of polytheism and at every second they aim at me the dart of infidelity.  O Thou Divine Spirit!  Descend and behold how my humiliation is greater than Thy glory."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 21 June 1914.
__________
All this diffusion of the fragrances of the Cause of God, throughout the Orient and the Occident, is mainly due to the successive exiles and imprisonments of the Blessed Perfection.  If these events had not transpired the holy Cause would not have left the frontier of Persia, the prophecies of the prophets concerning the raising of the voice of the Lord of Hosts from the mountains and hills of the Holy Land would not have been fulfilled and the tent of the Lord of Lords would not have been pitched on its plains and meadows!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 25 May 1914.
__________
Indeed God's ways are most mysterious and unsearchable.  What outward
page 179
relation exists between Shíráz, Tihrán, Baghdád, Constantinople, Adrianople, 'Akká and Haifa?  Yet God worked patiently step by step through these various cities according to his own definite eternal plan, so that the prophecies and predictions as foretold by the prophets might be fulfilled.  The golden thread of promise runs through the Bible, and it was so destined that God in his own good time would cause its appearance.  Not even a single word will be left meaningless or unfulfilled.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 14 February 1914.
__________
From the beginning of the Cause or more definitely from the time that the Blessed Perfection was exiled from Tihrán all the events in this movement, although their outward appearances for the time being were fraught with pain and sorrow, yet they were based upon the consummate wisdom of God.
On the eve of the departure from Persia the believers were in tears.  It is evident that after those dreadful persecutions, sufferings, trials and martyrdoms it was most difficult for them to bear this last blow.  They thought the voice would be hushed, the truth would die, the light would become extinct and the truth defeated.  However, the spiritual wisdom of such an event became apparent afterwards.  Eleven years' sojourn in Baghdád widened immensely the circle of influence of the Cause and carried its fame to the four corners of the earth.
Having received the farmán of exile from Baghdád to Constantinople, when the friends heard this dire news they were deeply grieved.  Through the intensity of anguish they were weeping uncontrollably.  The wisdom of this event became likewise manifest later.
When the two despotic governments decided to exile us from Adrianople to 'Akká there was such a manifestation of sorrow and anxiety that neither word nor pen can describe it adequately.  The floodgate of unutterable grief was set loose.  Thus you observe the ship of this Cause has weathered fearful storms, the like of which it is impossible for you to imagine.  Now it has become apparent how these events constitute the unparalleled victories of the Cause although at the time of their happening many people thought they were crushing defeats.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 25 May 1914.
__________
All the time of the sojourn of the Blessed Perfection-may the souls of all existence be a ransom to his forbearance!-in this mortal world, he was enduring the most painful afflictions.  At last, in this greatest prison, his holy body was extremely weakened from the intense sufferings and his beautiful person became as weak as a web from these continual hardships.  His main purpose in bearing this heavy burden and all these troubles which gave forth their waves like an ocean, in accepting chains and fetters and showing forth the greatest forbearance, was for the sake of harmony, concord and union among all the people of the world and for the establishment of the signs of the real unity among all nations, until the essential Unity (of God) might appear in the end in the existing realities, and the light of the saying:  "Thou seest no difference among the creatures of God" might shine forth upon the whole world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet revealed about 1904 or 1905 for the Persian believers.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh departed to the everlasting world and ascended to the Supreme Horizon, 28 May 1892.  On the day of his departure the inhabitants of Haifa, 'Akká and neighbouring places, assembled in the presence of his eldest son, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the "Greatest Branch", and interred his remains,
page 180
with extraordinary respect, close to the mansion of Bahjí, which is situated a short distance from 'Akká.
Abu'l-Fadl:  The Bahá'í Proofs, p. 69.)
__________
O ye friends of God and assistants of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
When the Sun of Truth was concealed behind the cloud of glory, the orb of the universe disappeared from the dawning-place of the visible and shone forth in the invisible world, and conferred successive bounties upon the contingent world, then from the unseen realms, the bats began to move, opened their wings and flew around.  They supposed they could interrupt the glorious bounties of that beautiful face, quench the shining rays of the Sun of Truth; extinguish the ignited fire and destroy the praiseworthy light; for they imagined that on account of the departure of His Highness the desired One, the divine foundations would be demolished and the blessed tree uprooted.  Evil was that which they imagined and thou findest them in this day in manifest loss.
For, according to what was heard, the enemies in some of the lands, upon receiving the news of the most great disaster, held banquets.  They rejoiced and made merry, celebrated festivals, burned incense, served sweets and flowers, lit many a candle, mixed honey and wine, played lutes and harps, spent that evening in cheerfulness and gladness until dawn, and sought delight and pleasure.  But (they were) heedless that the bounty of that Sun has no end, the torrent of that rain is free from interruption, the radiance of that blessed Orb is continual, and that the dominion of the "Merciful One (who) is established upon the Throne" is permanent.  Nay, rather, the human temple, like unto a cloud, prevents (people) from beholding the rays of the Sun.  Therefore, it is said in the Gospel that when His Highness the Promised One comes, he shall be mounted on a cloud; but when that noble cloud is concealed, then shall the disk of the sun become manifest and transmit intense rays throughout all regions.
Consequently, after the lapse of but a short time arose a tumult throughout the regions and the pillars of the world trembled.  The East became full of cries of joy and the West full of clamour.  The most luminous Sun of the beauty of Truth shone forth with, the utmost ardour from the invisible zodiac, upon all regions.  The veil of covering and concealment was removed and the fire of the love of God became ablaze within the hearts.  The beloved of God were enkindled as candles and became well known among men like unto enraptured lovers.  From every quarter a song and melody was heard and the call of "O our Lord, we have heard Thy voice" was raised in all regions.  The Word of God was promoted and the fragrances of God diffused.  The fame of the True One was universally spread.  The call of "Am I not (your Lord)" reached the ears of the far and near.  The Cause of the religion of God became loftier.  All the nations became impressed, and the enemies of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) were disappointed and in loss.
When they considered that the departure of His Highness the Desired One-may my life be a sacrifice to his beloved!-led to the exaltation of his blessed Cause, and the flame of the ignited fire increased and every assured believer stepped forward, therefore the shining of the brilliant light proved a manifest loss to the denying people.  Moreover, the grace of His Highness the Almighty adorned the imperial throne of Persia with the accession of an equitable king and through the power of the Merciful One that perfect sovereign became compassionate toward this oppressed community.  This was also a confirmation from His Highness the Powerful Lord.
From Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá for Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl and Ishti'ál Ibn-i-Kalántar.1  Translated 4 June 1903, Washington, D.C.


VIII:14, 23 November 1917
page 183
The Centre of the Covenant, the Greatest Branch:  'Abdu'l-Bahá
In order to preserve the unity of the Cause and to spread the religion of God, Bahá'u'lláh has established this Covenant and Testament.  Were it not for the power of the Covenant you would have witnessed the dispersion of the believers and the total disappearance of the Cause of God.  When I say the Covenant, I mean the power and authority of Bahá'u'lláh given to me.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, to Miss Magee, Paris, 10 May 1913.
page 184
Tablets Revealed by His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh confirming the Centre of His Covenant
In His Name who shines from the horizon of might!
Verily the Tongue of the Ancient gives glad tidings to those who are in the world concerning the appearance of the Greatest Name, and who takes His Covenant among the nations.  Verily he is myself; the shining-place of my identity; the east of my Cause; the heaven of my bounty; the sea of my will; the lamp of my guidance; the path of my justice; the standard of my laws.
The one who has turned to him hath turned to my face and is illumined through the lights of my Beauty; has acknowledged my oneness and confessed my singleness.
The one who has denied him has been deprived of the salsabíl of my love, of the kawther of my favour, the cup of my mercy, and of the wine through which the sincere ones have been attracted and the monotheists have taken flight in the air of my kindness, which no one hath known except the One whom I have taught the thing that has been revealed in my Hidden Tablet.
Translated by Mírzá Valí'u'lláh Khán Varqá, Tihrán, Persia, 11 December 1918.  Photographs of the original manuscript of this Tablet have been received in America.
__________
He is The Most Great, the Abhá!
This is The Branch that hath extended from the bower of thy oneness and from the tree of thy unity.  Thou beholdest him, O my God, gazing unto thee and holding fast to the rope of thy providence.  Preserve him in the neighbourhood of thy mercy!
Thou knowest, O my God, that verily, I have chosen him only because thou hast chosen him; I have elected him, only because thou hast elected him.  Therefore, assist him by the hosts of thy heaven and earth.  Help thou, O my God, whosoever may help him; choose whosoever may choose him.  Strengthen whosoever may advance toward him; and reject whosoever may deny him and desire him not!
O my Lord!  Thou beholdest my pen moving and my limbs trembling in this moment of revelation.  I beg of thee by my craving in thy love, and my yearning for the declaration of thy command, to ordain for him and his lovers that which thou hast ordained for thy messengers and the trusted ones of thy revelation.
Verily, thou art the Powerful, the Mighty!
__________
O thou my Greatest Branch!
Thy letter was surely presented before this oppressed one, and I heard that which thou hast communed with God, the Lord of the worlds.
Verily, we have ordained thee the guardian of all the creatures, and a protection to all those in the heavens and earths, and a fortress to those who believe in God, the One, the Omniscient!
I beg of God to protect them by thee, to enrich them by thee; to nourish them by thee; and to reveal to thee that which is the dawning-point of riches to the people of creation, and the ocean of generosity to those in the world, and the rising-point of favour to all nations.  Verily, he is the Powerful, the All-knowing and the Wise!
I beg of him to water the earth and all that is in it by thee, that there may spring up from it the flowers of wisdom and revelation and the hyacinths of science and knowledge.  Verily, he is the friend to those who love him, and an assistant to those who commune with him.
There is no God but Him, the Mighty, and the Magnified!
Tablet sent to 'Abdu'l-Bahá when he was in Beirut, Syria.
__________
page 185
O thou my Greatest Branch!
Bahá be upon thee, and upon whomsoever may serve thee; and woe unto those who contradict thee; blessed are those who love thee; and fire unto those who are thine enemies!
Praise be unto him who honoured the land of Beirut, with the feet of him around whom all the names revolve.  Therefore, all the (created) atoms have announced good tidings unto all the contingent beings, that the sun of the Beauty of the Greatest and Majestic Branch of God, the most weighty and well-made Mystery of God, hath arisen, dawned, appeared, gleamed and shone forth from the door of the prison ('Akká) and its horizon, and advanced to the former place (Beirut).  Therefore, the prison land is darkened, while the former is rejoiced.
Exalted!  Exalted! is our Lord God, the creator of all things and the maker of heaven, by whose power the gate of the prison is opened, the opening of which fulfilled that which was formerly revealed in the tablets.
Verily he is the powerful to do that which he pleases; the kingdom of emanation is within his grasp.  He is the Powerful, the Knowing, the Wise!
Blessed is the land which is honoured with his footsteps!  Blessed is the eye which is illuminated by his Beauty; the ear which is favoured with hearing his voice; the heart which has tasted the sweetness of his love; the breast which is dilated by commemorating him; the pen which moves in praising him; and the tablet which bears his signs!  I beg of God, the Exalted, the Most High, to cause us to attain his visit ere long.
Verily, He is the Hearer, the Powerful, the Answerer!
Tablet sent to 'Abdu'l-Bahá when he was in Beirut, Syria.
__________
But the One (from among his sons) who will appear among them with innate knowledge, God will cause the verses of His power to flow from his tongue, and he is the One to whom God has assigned His Cause.  Verily there is no God but Him, in whom is the creation and the command, and verily we are all performing His commands.
I beg of God to incline them to his obedience, and to nourish them with that whereby their mind is satisfied, and the minds of those who are facing the direction of God at every instant, and to overlook their oppression, and to ordain them of those who will inherit the heaven of paradise from before God, the Mighty, the Protector, the Self-subsistent!
Bahá'u'lláh:  Extract from Tablet revealed for Hájí Khalíl.  Prayers, Tablets, Instructions and Miscellany gathered by American visitors, during the summer of 1900.
page 186
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá concerning the Covenant and His Station therein
But if any soul asks concerning the station of this servant the answer is-'Abdu'l-Bahá.  If he inquires after the meaning of The Branch, the answer is-'Abdu'l-Bahá.  If he desires to know the significance of the verse regarding The Branch, the answer is-'Abdu'l-Bahá.  If he insists upon the explanation of the meaning of "The Branch extended from the Ancient Root", the answer is-'Abdu'l-Bahá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet revealed for Persian believers and throughout the world.
__________
I am, however, contented with what is inflicted upon me in thy path.  Would that thy servants could be satisfied therewith, and that it would have sufficed them to do all these things unto myself.  No! by thy Might! this shall never satisfy them.  Nay, they will attack the countenance which thou hast raised (to be) in thy place, and whom thou hast established to be on the throne of thy sovereignty; whom thou hast concealed under the tents of thy glory, and under the canopy of thy sublimity, whom thou hast branched from the ocean of thy singleness and enkindled with the fire of thine eternity, whom thou hast elevated to the station which is never comprehended by anyone, and is never known by any soul, whom thou hast appointed a fortress unto thy servants, and a light unto the countries, whom thou hast ordained the people to have recourse unto as they have recourse unto thee, and to be submissive under his hands as their submission unto thee.  Notwithstanding all this, they contradicted him.
Bahá'u'lláh:  Extract from Tablet.
__________
Verily, know that the Letter (Tablet) of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his address is a hidden mystery and concealed fact; no one is informed of its greatness and importance at these times.  But in course of time and in future centuries it will dawn forth; the fragrances thereof will be diffused and the greatness, the importance thereof will be known.  The truth I say unto thee, that each leaflet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá will be a wide-spread book, nay, rather a glistening gem on the glorious crown.  Know thou its value and hold great its station!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Booklet:  'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
The herald who proclaimed the written names is 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who announces the names of those who deserve salvation and are firm in the Covenant of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 681.
__________
This covenant is the Covenant of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Now its importance is not known befittingly; but in the future it shall attain to such a degree of importance that if a king violates to the extent of one atom he shall be cut off immediately.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet to American believer; translated 2 August 1913.
page 188
__________
Every movement in this world has a centre.  For example, the power of gravitation has a centre; and although there are many luminous centres of lights, yet there is a most great centre, and that is the sun.  Now, that you are independent of all the smaller centres, you must turn your face toward the Great Orb.  For example, this electric bulb is a centre of light, but it only illumines the room; but the sun shines upon all the created phenomena without any distinction.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 30 October 1913.
page 189
__________
If a soul shall utter a word without the sanction of the Covenant, he is not firm.  Bahá'u'lláh appointed a Covenant to ward off dissensions:  so that no one can have his own opinion,-so that the Centre can be referred to.  There were dissensions in the time of Christ because there was no Centre.  This is the reality of the question.  Whatever the Centre of the Covenant says is correct.  No one shall speak a word of himself.  Bahá'u'lláh has called down the vengeance of God upon anyone who violates the Covenant.  Beware!  Beware!  Lest ye be shaken:  Remain firm even if the people of heaven try to shake you.  Firmness in the Covenant is not mere words.  The command is explicit.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The point to which all eyes should turn is One.  All eyes must turn their attention to the Centre of the Covenant while the presence of the Covenant is among us.  No other soul should have any existence.  All others save the Centre of the Covenant are equal.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
(Excerpts from some instructions given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to several friends in America, July, 1912.  These excerpts received his personal signature.)
__________
These great days are swiftly passing and once gone can never be recalled, so while the rays of the Sun of Truth are still shining and the Centre of the Covenant of God is manifest, let us go forth to work, for after awhile the night will come and the way to the vineyard will not then be so easy to find.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  A Heavenly Vista, p. 32.


VIII:14, 23 November 1917
page 192
"Be most careful about matters of politics.  Do not mention it.  Our Cause is not political."
...
... it is well for the Bahá'ís to make clear to themselves, the distinctive characteristics of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh-as interpreted by 'Abdu'l-Bahá-and take cognizance of the fact that although he came to establish a new era in the world, he never interfered in political matters and was at all times obedient to the government, commanding His followers in every country to behave toward the government with faithfulness, trustfulness and truthfulness. (refer to Star of the West, VIII:9, p. 113.)
It is also very important that the Bahá'ís give close attention to the most great characteristic of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh namely, His teaching concerning the Centre of the Covenant which is a specific teaching not given by any of the prophets of the past.  By giving the teaching concerning the Centre of the Covenant, He made provision against all kinds of differences, so that no man should be able to create a new sect.  To guard against that state, He entered into a Covenant with all the people of the world, indicating the Person or Interpreter of His teaching so that no one should be able to say that he explains a certain teaching in a certain way, and thus create a sect revolving around his individual understanding of a part of the teachings.
...
page 193
...
That all may clearly understand the purpose or policy of the Star of the West, we give herewith 'Abdu'l-Bahá's instructions to the editors1 when he was in this country:
"Very welcome!  Most welcome!
"Your services are acceptable.  You have laboured much.  These labours are productive of great results.  They are the cause of the good pleasure of God and will be the magnet for the favours or blessings of God.  Therefore, be thankful because of your attainment to services.
"Your greatest aim and effort must be directed to the service of the Kingdom of God.
"The greatest service to the Kingdom of God is kindness to the servants of God.
"The greatest kindness to the friends of God, to the servants of God, is guidance or guiding them.
"Strive in your efforts, in your management, to become orderly, for this newspaper is now a link between the East and the West.
"Have no word in that publication which can be of displeasure to anyone.
"Attribute nothing to anyone.
"Let there be no displeasing statement; no debasing element regarding or concerning religions.
"Be most careful about matters of politics.  Do not mention it.  Our Cause is not political."
We are happy to present herewith two remarkable tablets revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the friends of God in Persia, translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, having been received in Chicago a few days before the Centennial Celebration of the birth of Bahá'u'lláh and read on that memorable occasion.
The tablet addressed to Jinábí Amín speaks of the good health of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  It also records the name of the messenger who carried them from Syria to Persia, Hájí Ramadán.
The tablet in the form of a Commune, is 'Abdu'l-Bahá's view-point regarding the war, and we respectfully suggest to all that it be read to those who desire to know the Bahá'í attitude toward this world conflagration.
Both tablets are the latest word from 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
Tablet to Jinábí Amín
O Jinábí Amín!
HE IS GOD!
Although the doors are closed, the ways and the roads are severed and the means of communication are lost, yet the ideal ties and inner communications still exist.  Though the mirror and the lights are far apart, yet the uniting force of the rays and the outpouring of reflections are strong and continuous.
The friends of God must move and conduct themselves with the utmost uprightness and power, so that all that are in the world of existence may become amazed at their firmness and steadfastness, their dignity and might.
This servant day and night is thinking of the friends in the utmost joy and fragrance, supplicating to His Holiness, The Merciful, for unlimited confirmations, so that every drop may become like unto the ocean, full of waves, and every atom expand in the rays of the sun.  This is not much to ask of the favour of God.
Convey the utmost longing to every one of the friends.  Praise be to God!
page 194
through the assistance and the bounty of His Holiness, the Single, we are in perfect health on Mount Carmel, at the home of his honour, Áqá 'Abbás Qulí.  On account of the severance of communication, to inquire about the friends and convey news of the safety here, his honour, Hájí Ramadán is sent, because no one else is able to travel this road in these days.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to the Persian Bahá'ís
Commune to be read by the friends of God in Persia.
HE IS GOD!
Thou seest me, O my God, on this lofty mountain; the sublime and supreme threshold; the shelter of every great one and the refuge of all the glorious and noble.
Verily, the youths whose hearts were burning with the fire of the love of God in the past ages have taken shelter therein-the meeting place of the prophets, the refuge of his holiness Elijah, the shelter of Isaiah, The spirit of God, Jesus, the Christ-upon Him be greeting and praise!-passed over it, and in the Supreme Threshold, pressed by the feet of the Lord of Hosts.
O Lord, this is a mountain to which Thou hast given the name Carmel in the Torah.  And thou hast attributed it to Thyself in the innermost heart of the tablets and scriptures.
O Lord, verily, I invoke Thee in this Supreme Threshold, under the wing of the gloomy nights; pray to Thee with throbbing heart and flowing tears, imploring Thee, supplicating between Thy hands and cry, O my Lord, verily, the fire of battles is raging in the valleys, hills and streams, and the fire of war is burning even under the seas and high in the air, in destruction and devastation.  The earth is enveloped by its own fires and the seas are encompassed by its storms, thunderbolts and floods.
O Lord, the souls are stifling, the death rattle is in their throats, the earth quakes and has become so small that even the birds are frightened in their nests and the animals terrified in their lairs and caves.
We hear only the sighs of the maidens and the cries of the orphans, the moaning of the mothers, the tears of the fathers because of false reports.  We see only tears flowing from every bereaved mother and the heart of every father, bereft of sons, burning.  Towns are being devastated, people are perishing, the children are made orphans and the women are becoming widows.  And this is only because of our heedlessness of Thy commemoration and our deprivation of Thy love.  Verily, we have been occupied with ourselves.  The intoxication of passion seized us; we have taken the road of heedlessness and blindness; have abandoned the path of guidance and have chosen the path of obstinacy and forgotten the commandments of the ancient scriptures.  We have forsaken the exhortations in the preserved tablets and parchments-the great verses.
O my Lord!  O my Lord!  I confess and acknowledge the sins.  Verily, every dark calamity and every hard ordeal has surrounded us by our own hands, in this transient world.  O Lord, verily, the minds are astounded, the souls are repelled.  And there remain only darkened faces, deaf ears, speechless tongues and hearts heedless of thy commemoration, filled with human passions and desires.
O Lord, Thou hast said in Thy manifest book and in thy great glad tidings, with explicit statement, "God does not change that which a people have, until
page 195
they change what is within themselves."  "And when they forgot God, He made them forget themselves."
O my Lord, verily, the nations have gone too deep into the fields of battle and struggle.  Nothing will check this sweeping torrent and this grinding war but Thy mercy, which has encompassed that which was and is.
O Lord, do not deal with us according to our offences and forgive our sins and trespasses.  Imperfections are the characteristic of everything possible of creation in the arena of Thy world.  And to Thy forgiveness and pardon Thou hast accustomed every one in existence.
O my Lord, only favour and mercy to every sinner, who has fallen into the pit of degradation and wretchedness, is befitting to divinity and only by the imperfections of servitude will the perfections of divinity become manifest.  O Lord, verily, the brilliant rays of the Sun of Reality are the removers of the utter darkness and the pure water cleanses the foulness and the sorrow of the world.
O my Lord, verily, the sins are bubbling foam and a full ocean is Thy mercy.  Trespasses are bitter trees and Thy pardon is a fire whose flame is intense.
O my Lord, remove the veil, scatter this dense cloud on the horizon, extinguish these fires, subdue this flood, in order to staunch the bloodshed, as compassion to the widows and mercy to the orphans, that these hurricanes may cease, the thunderbolts be extinguished, the torrents quelled, the land become visible, the souls find composure, and the breasts be dilated.  And we will thank Thee for Thy abundant favour, O Thou dear!  O Thou forgiver!
O my Lord, verily, thou hast clearly stated in the tablets and scriptures, that, had the ordinances fallen on solid rock, rivers would have gushed forth and it had crumbled to pieces from fear of the Dear, the Powerful.  But the hearts are harder than the rocks.  And the souls are in heedlessness and pride.  The people of heedlessness do not profit by the verses and exhortations.
O my Lord, verily, Thy exhortations are celebrated and have been spread broadcast, in the east and the west of the earth.  Thou hast called all to love and harmony and to forsake discord in all regions, so that the east of the earth may embrace the west; the people of the desert may embrace the people of the city; their scattered members become reunited and the lost ones be gathered together; that the darkness of the earth may pass away and its lights shine forth.  But the eyes and the inner sight have become blind, the ears deaf, the hearts hardened and the susceptibilities like rocks and stones.  The minds and intellects are being confused.  Souls have forgotten the explicit teachings of the Book, wherein Thou hast warned them of punishment.  Thus they have merited severe punishment and deserved the sentence of torment.
O Lord, forgive our sins and stumbling.  Make us not an example for the possessors of insight.  Guide us to the straight path, so that we may awake from the slumber of passion and be saved from heedlessness and blindness.  Deliver us, O Lord of Verses, from the abyss of passions and preserve us from errors.
O my Lord, verily, we have forgotten faithfulness and are revelling in unfaithfulness.  With the people of oppression and vice we are associating.  There is no deliverer for us save Thee.  There is no answerer save Thee.  There is no refuge save Thee.  Verily, we have trusted in Thee and we lay our affairs in Thy hands.  Deal with us according to Thy favour and pardon and punish us not
page 196
according to Thy justice and wrath.  Verily, Thou art the compassionate.  Verily, thou are the pardoner and, verily, thou art the forgiver.
O my Lord, verily, the people of righteousness and goodness and the communities of freedom in every country are turning to thee, at dusk and dawn supplicating between Thy hands during the wing of the night and in the dew of the morn, lamenting as a bereaved mother laments during the grievous nights, burning with the fire of sorrow, yearning and separation.  They are longing for Thy meeting even with rending of soul, as they traverse the dunes and the hills and cross the valleys and the heights.  But these wars that demolish mountains have interfered so that news has ceased and the doors are closed.
O Lord, comfort them in their loneliness; deliver them from their terror, and guide them in their affairs.
O my Lord, Thou knowest my sighs, my cries and my anguish, the burning pain because of their separation; my great longing for their meeting, my yearning for their love, my desire for their remembrance and my anxiety to see them.  Day and night their remembrance is my treasure and my roses.  When night comes my heart loves the memory of their illumined faces.  I yearn for them as the nightingale yearns for the beautiful meadows.
O my Lord, O my Lord, open the doors; prepare for us the means; render the path safe and pave the way so that the sincere ones may be reunited in the lofty meetings; the attracted ones gathered together in Thy commemoration in the great assemblies, to speak among the people of Thy bestowals, taste of the honeycomb of Thy meeting.  Then the breezes of acceptance will reach them and they will be swayed thereby as if intoxicated by wine.
Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Dear, the Giver and, verily, Thou art the Generous, the Compassionate, the Chosen One.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VIII:14, 23 November 1917
page 204
The city of God
A compilation of utterances of Bahá'u'lláh.
In this day a great banquet is celebrated in the Supreme Concourse for all that was promised in the Divine Books has appeared.  This is the day of the most great rejoicing.  All must direct themselves to the court of Nearness (to God) with the utmost joy, happiness, exultation and gladness, and deliver themselves from the fire of remoteness.
The way of freedom is opened; hasten thereto:  and the fountain of knowledge is welling up; drink thereof. ...  Truly I say that which will diminish ignorance and increase wisdom is pleasing to the Creator.  Say:  O people, walk in the shadow of justice and uprightness and enter the pavilion of unity.
It is hoped that in this morn when the world is illumined by the Sun of Knowledge we may seek the good pleasure of the Friend (the Heavenly Father) and drink from the sea of recognition.
O friends!  Sleep with your face turned to the Friend and rest in bed in the thought of the Beloved One.  From flowers inhale the Fragrance of the Loved One, and in every fire see the light of the face of the Desired One. ...  Then exert thyself in love with thy soul, and enter the abode of the Beloved One with thy heart.  Abandon grief for the world to its people and give no heed to the limited days of this worldly life.  (Pass over all else save God with the swiftness of lightning.)  Thus mayst thou cast off the old garment of this world, be seated on the immortal, everlasting throne, be clad in a divine raiment, drink the wine of love from the cup of the Beloved One, become ablaze with the light of love and sew the robe of love!  This is that matter which shall never change.  Know thou, therefore, that in every age and dispensation all divine ordinances are changed and transformed according to the requirement of the time, except the law of love which always flows and is never overtaken by change.  This is of the wonderful mysteries which God hath mentioned for His servants!  Verily He is the Merciful, the Compassionate!
In this day the City of God hath appeared and is seen in full adornment.  This is the city wherein the God of all is become manifest. ....  Take the rod of resignation in the name of God and guide the erring people with entire severance to the great city of God, that perchance the wanderers may attain to the real native land and the blind may receive discerning sight.  Verily, He is powerful to do that which He willeth.  All things are in the prayer of His power.  Verily he is the Powerful, the Mighty.


VIII:14, 23 November 1917
page 204
A question answered
From a Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Ella G. Cooper, San Francisco.  Translated and mailed from Haifa, Syria, 19 March 1916.
Question:  In the copies of the talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Society of Friends in London, there seems to be a discrepancy in the time in the opening line.  In some it reads, "About six thousand years ago", in others "six hundred years", and in others "sixty years".  If the Society referred to signifies the Bahá'í Movement, would not sixty years be the correct number?
Answer:  This talk opens with the words, "About six hundred years ago."  This Society was founded in the city of Hamadán six hundred years ago and has nothing to do with this movement.  It is almost disbanded, but under different names and forms one may come across them in Persia.  They were called the Society of Súkútíyyun, that is, the "Silent Ones".


VIII:15, 12 December 1917
page 205
"Concerning the station of this servant, the answer is:  ''Abdu'l-Bahá'"
The Master
"My Father!" said Valí'u'lláh Khán, the son of the glorious Persian martyr, "was much with Bahá'u'lláh.  One night Bahá'u'lláh, as he strode back and forth in his room, said to him:  'At stated periods souls are sent to earth by the Creator with what we call the Power of the Great Ether (Holy Spirit).  And those who possess this power can do anything; they have all power. ....  Jesus Christ had this power.  The people thought him a poor young man whom they had crucified but he possessed the power of the Holy Spirit; therefore he could not remain underground.  This ethereal power arose and quickened the world.  And now look to the Master,' said Bahá'u'lláh, 'for this power is his.'
"Bahá'u'lláh," added Valí'u'lláh Khán, "taught my father much about the Master.  The Master, you know, is one of the titles of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and the Greatest Branch is another.  Bahá'u'lláh, the Blessed Perfection, revealed the station of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to my father; and my father wrote many poems to the Master, though the Master would chide him and
page 206
say, 'You must not write such things to me.'  But the heart of my father could not keep quiet.  Once he wrote:  'O Dawning-place of the Beauty of God, I know thee.  Though thou wrappest thyself in ten thousand veils I know thee.  Though thou shouldst wear the tatters of a beggar still would I know thee'."
__________
We spoke of having read so many tablets in which we were told that 'Abdu'l-Bahá should be known only by the name of "'Abdu'l-Bahá".  Manavvar Khánum, the daughter of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, said that Bahá'u'lláh called him "Master".  And every prophet, after proclaiming his mission, adopts a name.  Moses spoke of himself as the Interlocutor; Christ of himself as the Son of God; and 'Abdu'l-Bahá calls himself the Servant of God.
Flowers from the Rose Garden of Acca, p. 8.
__________
During the lifetime of the Blessed Perfection, the Master, one day, was going to Tyre.  He wanted to take me with him; so he sent me to Bahjí [the house of Bahá'u'lláh] to fulfil some errand.  When I reached there the Blessed Perfection sent for me.  "Where are you going?" he asked.
"The Master is going to take me to Tyre," I answered.
"Very well; always listen to the Master.  Whatever the Master speaks, I speak; and whatever I speak, the Master speaks. ..."
Whenever the Master came from 'Akká to Bahjí, Bahá'u'lláh would see him from his window and then call aloud to his sons and secretaries:  "The Master is coming!  The Master is coming!  Everyone must hurry downstairs and out in the field to welcome him."
Abu'l-Qásim:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 15 December 1913.  Abu'l-Qásim is the gardener of the Ridván, the wonderful garden just outside of 'Akká.)
__________
At another time the Blessed Perfection instructed the gardener, Abu'l-Qásim, to attend to some business for him, he and the Master both being in the Ridván.  The Master, meeting Abu'l-Qásim just afterward, instructed him to go to 'Akká and bring them some food for supper.
The gardener sought Bahá'u'lláh and asked that he might tell him of the Master's command.  Bahá'u'lláh said in reply to Abu'l-Qásim:  "That is well.  You must go.  You must do everything that the Master says.  Everything the Master says is just the same as if I said it.  He is me, and I am he.  There is no difference between my commands and the commands of the Master."
Notes of Mrs I. D. Brittingham, September, 1901.
The Greatest Branch
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas was revealed by Bahá'u'lláh, the Manifestation, soon after his arrival at 'Akká, and is the greatest Book. ...  The statutes and laws were given in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  In this Book is mentioned everything that is necessary for us, and in two places he says:  "After the Sun of Truth sets, we must turn our faces unto 'Him-whom-God-hath-chosen', who is branched from the Ancient Root"; and in another place:  "Anything you do not understand from the Book, must be submitted to the great chosen One."  Nothing whatever is mentioned in the Book concerning any other one save the Greatest Branch, and if you read from the beginning to the end, you cannot find anything that refers to any other person save him.  Although it was known to all the believers that the Greatest Branch was 'Abdu'l-Bahá, at the time of the Manifestation if any one pronounced the word "Áqá"1 (Lord or Master), and
page 207
meant by it any one of the branches besides 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Bahá'u'lláh would say:  "There is only one 'Áqá' and he is 'Abbás Effendi [given name of 'Abdu'l-Bahá]" and the Manifestation would point to him at every important question.
The Manifestation wrote the Kitáb-i-'Ahd two years before his departure, in which he said:  The One-whom-God-hath-chosen is the Greatest Branch, and he commanded the branches, the twigs and kinsmen to turn their faces unto Him-whom-God-hath-chosen.  "Aghsán" means the branches of the Manifestation; "Afnán" means the branches of The Báb.  He said:  "We have chosen Akbar after Azím (Akbar-Muhammad-'Alí)", but he does not command us to obey him or to turn our faces unto him and there is nothing in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas which refers to Muhammad-'Alí, and this word "We have chosen" does not give Muhammad-'Alí any importance or high station to enable him to be our commander or master.
We must not be astonished that such a choice was given by the Manifestation, because the same thing took place at the time of Christ, for instead of choosing two branches, he chose twelve, and it is impossible for us to say that Christ did not know which one of those branches would betray him.  Neither can we say:  Why did the Manifestation, knowing all things, choose Muhammad-'Alí after 'Abdu'l-Bahá?  Because Christ also chose his twelve, and commanded obedience to them, saying:  "He who gives them a glass of water, will have a great reward in the Kingdom."  So if the same thing occurred in the past, you must not be astonished at what takes place in the present, for the two are similar.  But the only proof which will make us understand this question, is this, that God, according to His law, will never pronounce any judgement or condemn anybody before one shows his disobedience and commits the crime for which he is to be judged:  because, if God would pass judgement upon all, though some are good and some bad, before the good or bad actions are exercised by us, there would be no necessity whatever for laws, statutes or ordinances, and because God does not judge anybody before good or bad actions are produced.  He chooses some to be his people, and then he waits for their actions to prove whether they are good or bad.  As Christ chose his disciples and said to them:  "I am the vine, and you are clean through the Word which I have spoken, but every branch which does not bring forth good fruit, will be cut off"; so also, the Manifestation chose the branches and declared they would be the best of people if they continued to be under the shadow of the Tree.  In several tablets, he said:  "Any one of the branches who departs from the shadow of the Tree; will be cut off."  Besides there is a special tablet which was revealed by the Manifestation to Muhammad-'Alí, in which he says:  "Shouldst thou deviate from the right path for an instant, thou shalt be cut off."
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl:  From notes of Mrs Sara Herron at 'Akká, in 1900.
__________
If one of my sons should exceed beyond the ordinances of God, by God, my eye shall not turn to him at all, and to this bear witness all the just and informed. (p. 34)
Bahá'u'lláh:  Prayers, Instructions, Tablets and Miscellany gathered by American visitors to 'Akká in 1900.
page 209
The Servant
Now listen unto what I say for it is the foundation of success and the basis of righteousness among the people of the world, that you may be obedient unto 'Abdu'l-Bahá in all he wishes and says, Verily this is possessing strong faith.
Therefore, know that I have sacrificed my soul, spirit, life, mention, honour, at-
page 210
tributes, my comfort and my name in the path of God and I have chosen no dignity or possession save the obedience of Bahá and no name or title save 'Abdu'l-Bahá (servant of Bahá).  Therefore be content with this and follow in my words and wishes, because in so doing the blessed trees of life springing up in the paradise of God will become green and verdant.
If you desire to speak in praise, praise the Beauty of Abhá; if you desire to commend, commend the name of your Supreme Lord; for if you exalt the Tree you also exalt the Branch.  If you mention the sea you are also mentioning its gulf and bays.  Therefore mention the "Beauty of Abhá" by this sweet command among the people, for in my command is contained his command, my attributes are embodied in his attributes.  If, therefore, you commend a man you commend all related to him.  This is that upon which all the believers will unite and harmonize.  Therefore let nothing arise to cause separation among the chosen ones.
('Abdu'l-Bahá.)
__________
I ask one favour of all the friends of God:  It is the wish of my soul that they may all praise me only in my utter servitude to the Holy Threshold, without any interpretation and not to commend 'Abdu'l-Bahá with any other than the words and explanations which have proceeded from the very pen of this servant; that they may depart by no means therefrom, but confine themselves to that same measure.
Verily, my qualification, praise, rank, name, title, being, substance, reality and renown is "'Abdu'l-Bahá," and I have no grade except this.
The friends of God shall certainly agree with the request made by this servant with the utmost lowliness and humility.  They shall thus rejoice this afflicted heart and bestow new life upon this weak body, so that by hearing this mighty glad tidings and obtaining this divine gift 'Abdu'l-Bahá may rejoice and find divine gladness and exultation.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán and Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl; translated by Mírzá Khán, 4 June 1903.)
__________
I am a servant and this station I have chosen for myself.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
I am serving God.  I am the servant of God.  I give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, the power of speech to the mute and knowledge to the ignorant.  I raise the dead, I deliver those who are in darkness and guide them into the realm of light.  I make the poor rich and the weak powerful.  I satisfy the hungry ones with the bread of life and allay the thirsty ones with the pure water of immortality.  This is my work.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 30 June 1914.
__________
Servitude to all the human race is my perpetual religion.  Through the bounty and favour of the Blessed Perfection, 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the ensign of the Most Great Peace, which is waving from the Supreme Apex; and through the gift of the Greatest Name, he is the lamp of universal salvation, which is shining with the light of the love of God.  The herald of the Kingdom is he, so that he may awaken the people of the East and of the West.  The voice of friendship, uprightness, truth and reconciliation is he, so as to cause acceleration throughout all regions. ...  Through the appearance of the Blessed Perfection the theories are abrogated and the facts established.  The time of superficiality is gone by and the cycle of reality has appeared.  One must become the incarnation of servitude, the personification
page 211
of love, the embodiment of spirituality, and the mirror of mercy. ...  The quintessence of truth is this:  We must all become united and harmonized in order to illumine this gloomy world; to abolish the foundations of hostility and animosity from among mankind; to perfume the inhabitants of the universe with the holy fragrances of the nature and disposition of the Beauty of Abhá; to enlighten the people of the East and West with the light of guidance; to hoist the tent of the love of God and suffer each and all to enter under its protection; to bestow comfort and tranquillity upon every one under the shade of the Divine Tree; to astonish the enemy by the manifestation of the utmost love. ... to reach the ears of the inhabitants of the Kingdom with the outcry-"Verily the earth is illumined by the lights of its Lord."  This is reality!  This is guidance!  This is service!  This is the consummation of the perfection of the realm of humanity.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet revealed for New York Board of Council, translated 1 January 1907.
__________
... I am the servant of Bahá'u'lláh and nothing more; 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the sum of all perfections.  They must not attempt to surpass that name, "'Abdu'l-Bahá".  All must say to others that he claims for himself to be 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the believers must call him by his name as he wishes.  This is the only name he has appointed for himself.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From notes of Mr and Mrs J. H. Hannen, Haifa, 1909.
__________
Know thou that all the promises of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are true and his instructions are inspirations of the Holy Spirit and received as suggestions from Bahá'u'lláh.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to Mrs Lua Getsinger.
__________
Concerning my power:  it is one bestowal of the bestowals of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  It is my confirmer.  It is the light of my guidance.  It is the fire of my love.  Save it I have nothing.  Beside it I know nothing.  Except it I wish for nothing.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 26 May 1914.
__________
Although 'Abdu'l-Bahá considers himself as a drop, yet this drop is connected with the Most Great Sea.  Although he looks upon himself as an atom, yet this atom is related to the world-illuminating Sun.  As is said:  "The originator of all these voices is the King himself" or in other words:  "It is through his assistance."
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
The Blessed Perfection has explicitly promised me with his own tongue that he will assist me.  "Rest thou assured," he said, "my confirmations shall reach thee."  This has ever been the cause of my consolation.  Whenever these words are remembered my wound is healed and all the tempests are calmed.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 10 January 1914.
__________
As to the critical period (1901):  Know thou, that verily, 'Abdu'l-Bahá dominates every critical period through the confirmation of Bahá, nor is he dominated by any critical period.  And as a proof of this 'Abdu'l-Bahá has withstood all critical periods and great dangers since his earliest childhood to the present day through the assistance of the Supreme Lord.
My assistance is the assistance of the Blessed Perfection.  If all the world should gather together against me I would still possess this and all the world could not take it from me.  I have a weapon to fight with forever and ever.  With it I am always victorious.  It is a
page 212
sword which can never be dulled, a magazine which will always be full.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From booklet, Abdul-Baha.
__________
If any soul asks concerning the station of this servant, the answer is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  If he inquires after the meaning of The Branch, the answer is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  If he desires to know the significance of the verse regarding The Branch, the answer is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  If he insists upon the explanation of the meaning of "The Branch extended from the Ancient Root", the answer is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
In brief, the friends must be satisfied with the word of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Outside of this word, "'Abdu'l-Bahá", no other word, not even the word, Branch, should they refer to in their writings and their speeches.  By no means whatsoever should they exceed this word, neither ought they to harbour any discussion and question.  However, if any other soul declares another word than this, he will make this servant a target for the arrows of opposition and will become the cause of my grief.  For the utmost desire and the ultimate hope of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is to be a sincere servant at the Holy Threshold.  This gift is enough for this servant throughout the worlds.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from a Tablet revealed for Persian believers, about 1906.
__________
At the time of the end God shall manifest himself to all mankind with all the attributes of divinity and majesty, but very few shall advance toward him and the rest shall exclaim in horror:  "We take refuge in God!  O what blasphemy!"  Then again he will appear a second time manifesting all the qualities of servitude and the people will flock around him and believe in him and praise and laud his uncreated virtues.
A tradition of Muhammad, related by Bukhárí, who is celebrated for his accuracy, and wisdom.  From Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 19 January 1914.
__________
My name should be confined to "'Abdu'l-Bahá" in all writings.  This is the collective name which will gather all the people and it is the strong fortress and protection of the Cause of God.  The beloved ones must limit themselves to this.  However you may mention me as the light of the love of God, the flame of the guidance of God and the banner of peace and harmony.  I trust in God that you may ever be confirmed through the Holy Spirit.
You must know this, that the principle of the divine foundation is love, unison, oneness and the purity of intention.  When love is attained, the mystery of truth will then become manifest.  No one should adhere to different titles; one title (or station) is enough, and it is, "'Abdu'l-Bahá".  All must agree to this word, until the difference of opinion be removed from their midst.  But that which is essential to the acknowledgement of this word (i.e., 'Abdu'l-Bahá) is attraction to the love of God, service to the Cause of God, diffusing the Word of God, severance from all else save God, affinity, union and oneness, humility, meekness, nothingness and servitude to the beloved of God.  If one does not become characterized with these attributes he has not acknowledged the title (or station) of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Because 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the banner of the love of God, the lamp of the knowledge of God, the herald of the kingdom of God, the commander of the hosts of peace and reconciliation, and the orb of union and harmony among all the nations of the world.  Consequently, every one in whose heart the love of 'Abdu'l-Bahá has irradiated must act in this manner.  And when persons walk and move in this path all differences shall be removed.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From booklet, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________


VIII:15, 12 December 1917
page 208
"The people are vociferously discussing this Manifestation and all nations are investigating"
This Tablet, revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá for the Persian Bahá'ís some years ago, was translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, 29 November 1917.
HE IS GOD!
O ye beloved and ideal friends of God!
The divine voice from the invisible Kingdom of Abhá is reaching those who are asleep in the valley of unconsciousness with the call:
O ye heedless, awake!
O ye drunken, be sober!
O ye dead, arise!
O ye wilted, be revived and full of vigour!
O ye dumb, speak!
O ye silent, cry out!
The voice is the melody of the Covenant, and the effulgences are from the Light of the bountiful bestowals of the horizons.  It is the breeze of the meadows of singleness that is blowing and the effusion of the fragrances of the rose gardens that are wafting; it is the candle of the favour of the Ancient Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) that is lighted in every assembly; it is the outpouring of the clouds of mercy that is bestowing freshness to every garden and lawn; it is the verse of oneness that is uttered in the glorious Book, and the tablets of the unique Lord of the Kingdom are unfolding the mysteries of "they are clothed by the new creation"; incline your ears in order that ye may hear the melody of joy, and open your eyes to see the lights.
The favour of the Truth is abundant and His ancient bestowal is uninterrupted.  His cycle is all light.  His century fulfils all the signs.  Be not hopeless neither disappointed.  It is the day of hope and the century of the Glorious God.  It is the first resurrection and the dispensation of the Beauty of Abhá!  May my soul be a ransom to His Blessed Threshold.
In every horizon His light is brilliant and in every region His bounty is manifest.  His great fame has filled the east and the west.  The song of His divinity has encompassed the south and the north, and caused a tumult among the pillars of the world, making the hearts of the sons of Adam to quake.
page 209
The people are vociferously discussing this Manifestation and all nations are investigating.  The flame of this burning fire in all regions has reached the zenith of heaven, and the call of, "Verily, the evident Light is manifest!" has ascended from the earth to the inhabitants of the Supreme Kingdom.  All are exuberant with joy and intoxicated with the wine of love!
Ye, who are dwelling in the native land of His Holiness (Bahá'u'lláh) and are in the place where the Blessed Tree hath grown:  Why should ye sit quietly as in a corner?  Ye must be so aflame that the heat of your fire may enkindle the adjacent districts; the fragrances of the rose-garden of your hearts may perfume the nostrils of the Supreme Concourse; the flood of bestowal may pour from those hills and mountains to all regions, and the rivers of knowledge may flow from that city to all the valleys and the desert.
Hasten ye to prosperity!
Hasten ye to success!
Hasten ye to the great favour!
Hasten ye to evident light!
Hasten ye to the glorious attainment!
Hasten ye to the abundant share!
Bahá be upon ye!
O my Beloved, God!  These are thy servants who have heard thy voice, responded to thy word and accepted thy call.  They believed in thee; became assured in thy verses; acknowledged thy proofs; listened to thy evidences; walked in thy path and followed thy guidance; became informed of thy mysteries; comprehended the symbols of thy Book, the signs of thy Scriptures and the glad tidings of thy epistles and tablets; grasped the hem of thy garment and were held by the radiance of thy grandeur; their feet became firm in thy Covenant and their hearts strong in thy Testament.
O my Lord!  Ignite the fire of attraction in their hearts; let the birds of knowledge soar in the rose-gardens of their breasts and sing in the meadows of their souls, songs of love with the most wonderful melodies and harmonies; make them strong verses, unfurled ensigns and perfect words; elevate thy Cause by them; raise thy banners, spread thy signs, assist thy Word and support thy friends by them; make them to utter in thy praise and inspire them to arise in thy good-pleasure; illumine their faces in the Kingdom of thy holiness, and complete their joy by confirming them in assisting thy Cause!
O my Lord!  We are weak, strengthen us in spreading the fragrances of thy sanctity; we are poor, enrich us from the treasury of thy singleness; we are naked, clothe us from thy generous bounty; we are sinners, pardon our transgressions by thy favour, generosity and forgiveness.
Verily, thou are the Confirmer, the Helper, the Beloved, the Mighty, the Omnipotent!
Bahá be upon those who are firm and steadfast!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


VIII:16, 31 December 1917
page 213
"If the world should combine to overthrow the Covenant, it could not succeed"
For years God has been preparing you for this day, in order that you may be illumined like a candle for the dark night, that you may direct the people and establish them in the divine Covenant and Testament.  And if, like pure gold, you should be melted in the fire of calamity, you will be purged by that fire of calamity but you will be content.
The time was fully ripe for your coming and for the testing of man, because the great basis of the divine Cause is firmly fixed upon the pillar of the Covenant and Testament and the skies of the divine religions are brilliant and illumined by the stars of the Covenant.  God be my refuge!  If this pillar is to be opposed by a low fellow (ánúd or 'hostile') there will remain no supports for the divine Tabernacle and for the lesser tents, and there will be no candle lighted for the divine Assembly.  The well-built house will be razed to the foundation, it will become like a useless tomb, the commands will be delayed and the waves of the sea of favour will be retarded.  The sea of assurance will be cut off, the Breath of Life will cease to blow, the sails of the life-boat will be destroyed, the bright dawn will become dark evening, the dawning-point of desire will be covered under the clouds of regrets; all these troubles will become useless and all these sheddings of blood will be fruitless; the pure blood of the martyrs will become defiled and the remembrance of the blessed Báb [the Forerunner], whose breast became the target for a hundred thousand arrows, will disappear from among men, and his influence will become non-existent.  The whole fifty years of the troubles of the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh), the looting and plundering, the imprisoning and beating; the false accusing and injuring; the wandering and homelessness; the threatening by dagger and sword; the shackles and chains will become forgotten and without result.  It will become the source of joking and quarrelling among the enemies, the source of their gaiety and rejoicing.
Then, whatever mountain or plain you traverse, cry aloud:  This cycle is the Cycle of Alast!1  And this Covenant is the Ancient Covenant, the Illuminator of the horizons.  The armies of the Kingdom are the protectors of this foundation.  The sun of righteousness is radiant stability and this becomes the shining lamp of the assembly of unity.  It is the Strong Rope and the illumination of the Giver of Light.  It is al-'urva (untranslatable)2 and the fruit of the Túbá tree is in the concealed tablet and is recorded in the Book and the decreed Leaf.  It is the Testament and the
page 214
Covenant and it is mentioned in all the tablets and in all the early Books and in the later tablets.  It is the governor of the era of Shadad and the balance of the day of reckoning.  It is the life-boat and the refuge of the future.  It is the holy fragrance of His Holiness, the Creator, and the Breaths of Life of the garden of the Creator.  It is the strong fortress; therefore it is a sure shelter for all created beings, and in brief, it is the sum of all the sacred writings, ancient and modern!
How happy is the man who lays hold upon God; trusts in him, remains firm and inwardly becomes confirmed in the love of God and takes refuge under his banner!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  A tablet revealed for a believer in Tihrán, sent to America by Dr Moody.
__________
The radiance of servitude shining from the Candle of the Testament has illumined all horizons in spite of the people of discord, and the renown of the grandeur of the Blessed Perfection hath caused such an outcry throughout the world that it hath made the limbs of all nations quiver.
All the religions of the world have the loud cry of "Woe unto us!" on their lips, and the cry of "Woe to our Faith!" which is raised by the ignorant, is heard in the east and west.  The power of the blessed Cause has such effulgence that it has become apparent to all peoples; and all the nations and creeds have acknowledged and confessed the greatness of the Cause of God.  Had it not been for the injuries inflicted by the party of conceit (the Náqidín or Covenant Breakers), the world of existence would have been in this day an exalted garden.  But the people of conceit, being heedless of this cup mixed with ka'fur3 (a fountain intended to be drunk by the true and firm believers), have imagined that they can upset the standard of the Testament, and that they can disappoint the delivered nations.  They have poured forth seditious rumours on the lips and tongues of all people, and they have made calumniating statements, hoping by this means to mingle the contents of the pre-existent cup of the Testament with the bitterness of violation.  Far, far be it from them to do this!
Jesus Christ-May my soul be a sacrifice to him-had only a few followers in the time of his departure.  Then after his departure all the kings of the world, philosophers of all nations, learned men of all races, and wise men of all creeds, arose to suppress and degrade his cause; but finally, all the standards hoisted by those numerous nations were upset, and the banner of Jesus Christ was fluttering on the loftiest mountain.
Now, praise be unto God, that hundreds of thousands of souls have assembled under the standard of the Covenant through the assistance of the Blessed Perfection.  I declare by the Educator of the visible and invisible, it will evidently be witnessed that the descendants of the violators will think their descent as a disgrace and will disown their fathers and forefathers, just as Akrama, the son of Abú-Jahl,4 kept clear of his father, and Khálid, the son of al-Walíd, left his father.  As these darkened people (náqidín) have imagined that the power of the divine Testament is but a power of man, and that the edifice of the Covenant is as one of the baseless foundations of the material world, they are plotting to destroy this divine edifice with all intrigues and machinations.
Praise be to God, that the power of Nero, the great Roman emperor, proved impotent to withstand the cause of Christ-while these weak souls are plot-
page 215
ting to resist the power of the Covenant of God!  "Wherefore, take example from them, O ye who have eyes!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Portion of Tablet revealed for one of the Persian believers.  Translated about 1903.  [Complete Tablet is in Star of the West XII:14, pp. 235-236.]
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá said that he had seen the faces of the American believers and he was very glad-for their faces were radiant with the light of the Covenant of God, for the faces of those who violated the Covenant of God would appear veiled in darkness.
The Covenant of God is like the sun-the brilliance and light of the Covenant radiates and shines forth from the faces of those who are firm in it.  He said:  "I pray to the Blessed Perfection that he will so turn their faces to the Covenant, that all America may be enlightened by the brightness of their light." ...  The radiance of this Sun (the Covenant) has been felt from here to America, and notwithstanding all this, the violators desire to quench the light of the Covenant of God.  They wish to extinguish this light, but they do not know that the light of God's Covenant is kindled and comes from the presence of God, and though it were surrounded by all the winds of the earth, they could not prevail to blow it out.
The existent contingent world was shaken by the Covenant of God, and yet they wish to remove it by their most weak power.  It is as if a handful of earth should endeavour to stop the waves of the ocean.  It is like a mote trying to stop the rays of the sun from reaching the earth.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Prayers, Tablets, Instructions and Miscellany, gathered by some American visitors to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 1900.
__________
From the graces of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh I beg for you firmness and steadfastness.  Today whosoever is a herald of the Covenant is confirmed and assisted.  In these days a number of souls, whose deeds are known in America as clear as the sun, have arisen in enmity against the Centre of the Covenant.  Theirs is the vain imagination that they can extinguish the light of the Candle of the Covenant.  Vain indeed is their thought.  The Candle of the Covenant is like unto the Morning Star which never sets.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 19 October 1914.
page 216
If the world should combine to overthrow the Covenant, it could not suc-
page 217
ceed.  'Abdu'l-Bahá loves all no matter how they turn away from him.  Whether they love or hate him, go or come, he never changes in his love for them.  The Blessed Perfection has left nothing undone.  What he ordained can never be set aside.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 8.
page 217
__________
O my Lord!  O my Lord!  Intoxicate them with the wine of knowledge; sweeten their tastes with the delicacies of prayer in the early morn and eve; gather them together in one congregation; confer upon them a shelter; protect them in the cave of thy Covenant and thy Testament; shield them from the doubts of the violators and the evil suggestions of the waverers; make them mines of knowledge, wisdom and assurance; cause their feet to be firm and steadfast in the straight pathway and grant unto them prosperity in whatever country they call the people to thy Name!  Verily, thou art the Lord of the Cause, and thou are powerful to do whatsoever thou desirest!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 18 July 1913.
__________
Give my salutations and praise to that assembly who are firm in the Covenant of God, and say:
O ye whom God hath chosen from among those who are called (know ye that many are called but few chosen); upon whom he caused the evident light to descend; whom he guided into the right path and to whom he gave the glad tidings of the great success-ye must be sincere and faithful, ye must follow the ordinances which refer to the Covenant of God, which is the solid edifice.
O ye beloved of God, know that steadfastness and firmness in this new and wonderful Covenant is indeed the spirit that quickens the hearts which are over flowing with the love of the glorious Lord.  Verily, it is the power which penetrates into the hearts of the people of the world!  Your Lord has assuredly promised His servants who are firm and steadfast, to render them victorious at all times, to exalt their word, propagate their power, diffuse their light, strengthen their hearts, elevate their banners, assist their hosts, brighten their stars, increase the abundance of the showers of mercy upon them, and enable the brave lions (teachers) to conquer.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet revealed for an American Bahá'í, July 1900.
page 218
__________
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, the Covenant of God and His Testament is the lamp with world-illuminating rays, and from the Supreme Concourse it enlightens the horizons of the earth and heaven.  Whoever stations himself in front of this divine Light, his face will become illumined with the Manifest Glory, his speech will become effective in the hearts and spirits and God shall reinforce him with power which permeates through the realities of things.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 18 July 1913.
__________
Know thou this of a certainty that today the title of the most great bestowal is firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant of the Almighty, but the magnet for the attraction of the graces of His Highness the Merciful is to teach and guide mankind.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 12 October 1913.
__________
If you could realize what an effect your letter produced, undoubtedly you would feel assured that the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá has the utmost attachment to you, and day and night he is supplicating toward the Kingdom of Abhá and begs for you confirmation, for you are firm in the Covenant and are the heralds of the Testament.
Today the greatest of all affairs is firmness in the Covenant.  This Covenant is the Covenant of God, and this Testament is the Testament of the Lord of Hosts.  If you consider that any soul shows the slightest weakness in the Covenant, undoubtedly counsel him and guide him so that he may become firm.
Today no soul has any station or enjoys any title except the soul who is firm in the Covenant and steadfast in the Testament, who entirely forgets himself and is released from the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Portion of a Tablet revealed by him in response to a letter asking him to visit the Northwest.  It was signed by about ninety Bahá'ís of Spokane, Seattle and Portland.
page 219
This (Covenant) is the Ark of Noah, its moving power is the fire of the love of God and its captain is Bahá'u'lláh.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 6 December 1912.
__________
Thy detailed letter ... was duly received.  Its contents produced joy and happiness, for it indicated the manifestation of the power of the Cause of God in that country, and the worthy services rendered by the firm ones in the Covenant and Testament.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet, translated 5 March 1914.
__________
Firmness in the Covenant contains an odour like unto the fragrance of the musk which perfumes the nostrils, while violation of the Covenant has a stench which nauseates the nostrils.  Therefore, when one inhales with a spiritual power unquestionably he will distinguish between the two smells.
The world of violation is like unto a rootless tree, ere long it will entirely die.  The world of the Covenant is like unto the Blessed Tree which is growing beside the river of the Water of Life in the utmost delicacy and beauty, and day by day it is developing and adding to its verdancy.  Ere long no trace will be left of the world of violation.  No one will ever abandon His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and his incontrovertible texts and no one will ever follow the superstitions of the náqidín [the violators].  For in his irrefutable utterances and blessed writing he has most emphatically commanded all the náqidín to obey (the Centre of the Covenant).  All the náqidín whom you observe know this fact but self-interest having crept in they are following violation.
This century will pass and in the next century there will remain not one náqidín.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Portion of Tablet, translated 30 September 1913.
__________
Thy letter was received and its contents imparted the utmost of happiness because it was an indication of thy firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant.  Today whoever is firm in the Covenant shall become ignited like unto a candle in the assemblage of the world and the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá shall encircle him from all directions.  Thank thou God that both thyself and thy revered husband are confirmed in the firmness of the Testament and from every standpoint thou art serving the Kingdom of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Portion of Tablet revealed for a Los Angeles believer, translated 16 July 1913.
__________
Today the highest of all the degrees are the degrees of firmness and steadfastness in faith and certainty.  This firmness and steadfastness will be conducive to the descent of divine assistance and confirmation.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 24 July 1914.
__________
Thy letter was received.  Its perusal indicated thy faith and firmness in the Covenant and Testament. ...  Therefore, exercise the utmost love and kindness toward each other to the utmost degree, and love each other heartily and strive in the assistance of each other and take a firm hold on the divine Testament and the Covenant.  Because the spirit of this age is the Covenant and the Testament of God.  It is like the pulsating artery in the body of the world.  Speak in your meetings and assemblages about the Testament and the Covenant, and invite every one to firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant.  Know ye this:  that if any person is the least doubtful about the Covenant, he is immediately cut off-although he may be the greatest among men.  The harmful results of such an event will appear
page 220
in the future; therefore, give your utmost attention to this question.  Consider that the words of Mírzá 'Alí Akbar [a Bahá'í teacher] were so effective because he is firm in the Covenant.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet, translated 4 July 1913.
__________
You have written that "We all pray that we and all the friends everywhere be favoured with the Will of the Centre of the Covenant, which is by itself, the good of the whole world, the eternal glory and life (for humanity)."  This statement plainly shows that, thank God, you are firm in the Covenant.  Today whosoever is firm in the Covenant is helped by the hosts of angels, and favoured with the Spirit of God.  Wherever he may be, he will shine forth like unto a bright star.  This has been experienced by some.  But, if he hesitates, although he may make great noises, yet he is in evident loss in the end.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet, received 7 September 1914, by a London Bahá'í.
__________
As to thee, O thou who art confessing the oneness of God! arise with all thy power to keep firm in the Testament of God, and firmly believe that, verily, all troops are defeated save those of the Testament and all banners are reversed, save those of the Covenant of God, which will wave over all horizons and will overshadow the hosts of spirit, love and peace, while agitated by the breeze of the favour of God.  Be thou of this great host and among the vanguard of this great and powerful army. (p. 108.)
"Leave them to amuse themselves with their own vain discourses", and turn thou to the light of the Testament, and rejoice at the bounty of the effulgence, and seek shelter under the shadow of the standard of the Covenant.  Thou wilt soon find it fluttering on the highest summits of glory, surrounded by the valiant hosts of the angels of heaven and assisted by spiritual armies of great number that proceed from the Supreme Concourse. (p. 72.)
Be ye assured with the greatest assurance that, verily, God will help those who are firm in His Covenant in every matter, through His confirmation and favour, the lights of which will shine forth unto the east of the earth, as well as the west thereof.  He will make them the signs of guidance among the creation and as shining and glittering stars from all horizons. (p. 83.)
Soon the lights will glisten and the Sun of Truth will shine with a burning ray in that country.  At that time the maid-servants who are firm and constant will rejoice; while every doubtful soul who wavers will regret.  Woe unto him! woe unto him! in that day wherein the beloved will attain joy by the surrounding Kingdom of thy Lord, the Precious, the Beneficent.  Verily, the end is for them who are ushered into the tent of the Covenant of thy merciful Lord. (p. 96.)
Be well watered with the abundant rain falling from the clouds of the Testament of God. (p. 131.)
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, pages indicated, Vol. I.
__________
Therefore, roll up thy sleeves to serve the Covenant, make the hearts firm in the Covenant of the beloved Lord, create harmony and agreement among the believers. ...  Verily, I send thee good news of the confirmation which thou shalt receive ... if thou wilt arise with all thy power to assist the Testament of God and to serve the Covenant of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 161.


VIII:16, 31 December 1917
page 216
"This is what we inform ye in the days of tests"
Through his honour, Dr Baghdádí, to the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, Muskegon, Michigan.-Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye who are attracted to the Kingdom of Abhá!
Verily, I have read your letter, which indicates illumined consciences and hearts filled with the love of God.  Blessed are ye, for ye have attained to a Bounty which was the desire of the greatest holy men in past centuries and which is befitting for those who are like unto ye.
Verily, I ask God to make ye the signs of guidance among mankind and to bestow upon ye stability and uprightness.
Perhaps papers of doubts will come to ye from souls who have emerged from the Kingdom of God.  Care ye not therein.  Arise with a firm foot in the Covenant, in order that the people of hypocrisy becomes hopeless, even if they should come with the greatest intrigues, evil suggestions and discords.
This is what we inform ye in the days of tests. ...
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, 19 November 1914.


VIII:17, 19 January 1918
page 221
"Today the penetrative power in the heart of the world is the power of the Covenant"
Jesus Christ said only a few words to Peter, telling him that upon that rock he would build his church.  He left no written instruction or will, and yet because it was the Word of God, it took root, and millions have obeyed it.  And now, when the Covenant has been written and established, how can any one be foolish enough to imagine that they can resist it?  No, the ensign of the Covenant has reached to the supreme heights, and its authority will be spread over all the earth.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Prayers, Instructions, Miscellany gathered by American visitors to 'Akká in 1900.
__________
Moses said that after him should come Joshua.  The Christ said, addressing Peter "Thou art the rock and I will build my temple upon this rock."  Jesus spoke this to Peter by word of mouth.  The Blessed Perfection1 did not appoint his successor by statement of tongue, but in the Kitáb-i-'Ahd (Book of the Covenant), he wrote it with his own hand, commanding therein that all the branches and relations should look toward the Centre of the Covenant.  Also in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas revealed thirty years before his ascension, it is mentioned in two places.  During these thirty years these commands of the Blessed Perfection were known and clearly understood by all.  Again in a tablet he refers specifically to this, naming one who would violate his commands.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 62.
__________
Real obedience and real sacrifice are identical-absolute readiness to follow and perform whatever you are called upon to do in the Cause of God.  When you really love God you will be willing to sacrifice everything and submit yourself entirely to his will.  Consecrate yourself wholly to him.  His will is everything, his service paramount.  If they were to burn me, kill or torture me-no matter what affliction might descend upon me, I would welcome it as one welcomes pleasure.  These are precious moments in 'Akká; so precious we wish that they might never end. ...  After your return (to America) the believers will be in a much stronger and better condition.  But this cannot be unless they see and know the will and desire of God.  I have no wish but his will.  His will is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  If each human creature had his own will and way, spiritual development would be impossible.  The soldiers in an army are under the will and control of one commander; therefore they are united and can press on to victory.  If each soldier carried out his own inclination and desire there would be just that many different intentions and nothing would be accomplished.
page 222
One thousand soldiers under the control of a commander can overthrow and defeat any number of disorganized troops.  Without a directing will all would be conquered and defeated.
Be sure, therefore, that if the believers are not united in the will of God they will not be assisted.  This is especially necessary because all of them are under the tent of the Covenant in this revelation.  There is strength only in unity.  Under one tent there is union and harmony.  The Covenant of God in this day of manifestation is a lifeboat and ark of salvation.  All true followers of the Blessed Perfection are sheltered and protected in this ark.  Whoever leaves it, trusting in his own will and strength, will drown and be destroyed.  For the Blessed Perfection left no possibility for discord, disagreement and dissension.  The Covenant is like the sea and the believers as the fishes in the sea.  If a fish leaves the water it cannot live.  There is nothing to equal, nothing so effective as the Covenant of God to bring about and continue unity.  Christ said to Peter "Thou art my rock upon which I will build my church."  Therefore, all the disciples followed Peter and there was no dissension among them.  The Blessed Perfection wrote a Testament or Covenant with his own pen so that no one who obeys it will deny or disobey God.  The point is expressed very clearly in the Covenant be revealed.  Therefore there can be no possibility, no position of disobedience.  He knew that Muhammad-'Alí would disobey the Covenant.  By violating the Covenant he has become a fallen branch.  The Covenant was also written by Muhammad-'Ali's own hand from dictation of the Blessed Perfection who knew he would disobey.  What cause of union could be greater than the Covenant God has revealed through his Manifestation, Bahá'u'lláh?  After the departure of Bahá'u'lláh the beautiful blossoms upon the Tree of Life were destroyed by Muhammad-'Ali and must now be grown again by the love of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The work and mission of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are very great.  No one could express the grief which followed the turning away from the Covenant by Muhammad-'Ali.  We should be thankful that the Blessed Perfection, foreseeing this action, ordained a Centre of the Covenant through which by allegiance and love we may protect and preserve the Cause of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 48.
page 223
__________
Praise be to God, that you have a blessed Assembly surnamed by the name of the Centre of the Covenant!  This is an evidence of your utmost firmness and steadfastness and a proof of your faith and assurance in the Blessed Perfection.
For this divine Covenant is an institution of the Lord.  The Blessed Perfection, in all the tablets, books, epistles and supplications, has begged confirmation for and praised and commended those who are firm in this Covenant and Testament, and has asked the wrath of God and woe and desolation unto the violators.
For firmness in the Covenant will preserve the unity of the religion of God and the foundation of the religion of God will not be shaken.
According to the clear text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and other tablets, the Centre of the Covenant is the remover of all difficulties, for he is the interpreter of the Book.  Not one soul has the right to say one word of his own account, or to explain anything or to elucidate the text of the Book, whether in public or private. ...
Convey the rare greetings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to all those who are firm in the Covenant.  If all the believers and maid-servants of the Merciful do proclaim their firmness in the Covenant, such steadfastness in the Covenant, like unto a magnet, will draw 'Abdu'l-Bahá to those regions.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Portion of Tablet revealed for San Francisco Bahá'í Assembly, during 1912.
page 227
__________
Thou hast written regarding the love and unity of the believers and their firmness in the Covenant.  This is through the confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá which has attracted those souls and made them steadfast in the Covenant.  Today the penetrative power in the heart of the world is the power of the Covenant.  The more firm the believers are, the more they are confirmed.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet to American believers, translated by Mírzá Sohráb, 16 July 1913.
__________
Firmness in the Covenant means obedience, so that no one may say this is my opinion.  Nay, rather he must obey that which proceeds from the pen and tongue of the Covenant.  I am 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The crown of my head is the servitude of Bahá'u'lláh and the service of his believers.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from a Tablet, translated 4 March 1913.
page 228
__________
As thou hast realized thy own shortcomings, rest thou assured that thou art firm in the Covenant and Testament, and in the love of the True One art steadfast and growing.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet revealed for an American believer, translated 1 November 1909.
__________
This is the first step in the path of God, but the distance of the way is great.  I hope that thou mayest traverse that distance and reach the house of the object.  That pathway is that of severance from the world-tie[s], reliance upon God, baptism through spirit and fire; namely, to attain the spirit of the knowledge of God, and conflagration with the fire of the love of God; trustworthiness, faithfulness and firmness in the Covenant, steadfastness in the cause of God, and service to the kingdom of peace which shall soon establish its tent in the centre of the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablet revealed for an American believer, received 8 October 1906.
__________
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!  If thou desirest divine confirmation and assistance, so that the heavenly Cohorts may grant thee victory, remain thou firm and steadfast in the cause of God and be thou constant in the Covenant and Testament-thus like unto a solid structure thou mayest become established and unshakeable throughout all eternity.  Whenever a great object adheres to its own centre, great results and signs will become apparent.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 13 July 1914.
__________
But the sincere servant of Bahá'u'lláh who is firm in the Covenant and steadfast in the Testament while surrounded by the most great sea of tests, threatened by the surging, rocking waves of persecutions and encircled by the whirlwinds of calumnies and backbiting, will blossom like unto a rose and break into joyous song and sweet melodies like unto the nightingale.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 28 July 1913.
__________
The words of love and unity have been more dwelt upon in the writings of Bahá'u'lláh than by any other prophet.  In the Book of the Covenant it is noted most especially.  In this tablet he says:  "O people of the world!  I hope you will hold to the principles which will uphold your station."  The station of man is great if he be true to himself and live up to it.  If the friends live up to the teachings of the two pages of the Covenant, it will be sufficient.
Wife of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Flowers from Rose Garden of Acca, p. 31.


VIII:17, 19 January 1918
page 224
Prayer
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago.  This supplication was revealed at a time when in some parts of Persia the believers were awaking to an understanding of the importance of the Covenant.
Praise be unto thee, O God, and glory be unto thee, O my Lord, for thou hast sent from among thy servants those whose consciences became clear:  whose countenances were beautified; who flourished outwardly; became inwardly purified; whose faces became illumined; whose stars shone; whose hearts rejoiced; whose sorrows vanished; whose breasts dilated-when they heard the call of the Covenant.
They witnessed the signs of harmony; saw the light of dawn and responded to the Orb of the Horizons.  Their faces radiated with the light of bounties and their tongues delighted in the mention of the Lord of great bestowals.  They spoke with praise; were illumined with the light of guidance and became ignited with the blazing fire of the Tree of Sinai.  They became firm in the Ancient Covenant; walked in the straight path; took hold of the mighty rope; turned to the manifest horizon and followed in the steps of the greatly refined.  They gathered in the assembly of glory, in thy name, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  They consulted concerning the mighty Testament; agreed upon the right decision and were confirmed with a new spirit.  Their breasts were dilated through the reading of the mighty Covenant.  They wrote the evident book which speaks of firmness and indicates steadfastness.  They held fast to the strong and unbreakable support and grasped the hem of the Garment of Grandeur.
O Lord, illumine their faces in the Kingdom of Abhá; incline their ears to the voice of commendation from the Supreme Concourse; make them great signs of thee; ordain for them the best of this world and the world to come; elevate their stations to the sublime canopy.  Give them a truthful tongue among the people of the world and usher them into the paradise of thy meeting after they ascend to the Supreme Companion.
Verily, thou art the Omnipotent in whatsoever thou desirest and verily thou art the Pure Almighty.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


VIII:17, 19 January 1918
page 225
"From all parts of the world, tribes of Jews are coming to the Holy Land"
When the Sun of Reality shone forth from the horizon of sanctity it flooded the world with the rays of the oneness of thoughts, the oneness of opinions, the oneness of ideals and the oneness of truth so that mankind, in doctrines and articles of belief, might converge toward one common centre; differences, contention and discord be entirely effaced from the world of humanity and the unique light which hath branched forth from the Sun of Reality might illumine all the hearts.
'Abdu'l-Bahá is the Centre of the Covenant of God, the Branch which is subservient to the Tree.  The essential object is the Tree, the foundation is the Tree and the universal reality is the Tree.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to the American believers, translated by Mírzá Sohráb, 19 April 1914.
__________
Know ye of a certainty that the question of the gathering of the descendants of Abraham in Jerusalem is an inviolable fact; for that time of the fulfilment of all the promises which the Lord of Hosts gave them through the prophets of the people in the Taurat (Bible) hath dawned and the divine will is predestined to fulfil all the prophecies.  Now day by day the signs thereof become apparent, its arguments obvious, its proof evident and its path visible.
From all parts and corners of the world the descendants of His Highness, the noble Friend (Abraham) are arriving in the Holy Land and are engaged in the cultivation and development of towns and villages.  However, the divine standard is the ensign of the Covenant.  It is the manifest assister of the
page 226
children of Israel and the cause of their gathering and unending glory.  This promise is already fulfilled in part and ere long will be fulfilled completely.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  To the sons of Áqá Joseph, the Jew of Ramadán, translated 26 July 1907.
__________
Mr _____ referred to a meeting (in Persia) when a Jew, a Christian, a Zoroastrian and a Muslim were present and remaining for the night, shared the same bed.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Consider what the power of the Covenant has done.  It was an absolute impossibility for a Zoroastrian to unite with a Jew, a Siyyid, and a Mullá and for these to unite with a Christian was an impossibility; but the power of the Covenant has even so gathered them that they are accounted as one spirit.  Although the bodies are numerous, the spirit is one."
From the notes of Kinney-Beede-Thompson visit to 'Akká, 1909.
__________
Regarding the rainbow, this rainbow is the Covenant of God and the Testament of the Merciful One.  The lights of the Kingdom and the heavenly illumination emanated from this rainbow.  This rainbow is the sign of the removal of the wrath of God from all the people and the sign of prosperity, tranquillity, universal peace, the oneness of humanity, and the unity of the world of man.
'Abdu'l-Bahá: From a Tablet translated about 1907.


VIII:18, 7 February 1918
page 229
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16; Chapter II appeared in issues VII:18 & 19; Chapter III appeared in issue VIII:2; Chapter IV appeared in issue VIII:4; Chapter V appeared in issue VIII:6; Chapter VI appeared in issue VIII:8; and Chapter VII appeared in issues VIII:10 & 11.]
CHAPTER VIII
Spiritual Healing
O maid-servant of God, there are two kinds of disease, spiritual and physical.  Physical diseases are cured by medicine and the essence of shrubs and plants.  Diseases which are caused by the emotions of the mind are cured by the power of the spirit of man.  But the power of the divine spirit dominates all the bodily ailments and those of the mind.  When the spirit of man is confirmed and assisted by the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, then it will show its effect in every condition in the world of existence.
As to mental healing,-it also has an effect because some reflections are produced between the hearts by the power of concentration.  From this power of concentration impressions are produced and healing or relief is realized from these impressions.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Between material things and spiritual things there is a connection.  The more healthful his body the greater will be
page 230
the power of the spirit of man; the power of the intellect, the power of the memory, the power of reflection will then be greater.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Table Talks at Acca; p. 5.
__________
I hope thou wilt become as a rising light and obtain spiritual health; and spiritual health is conducive to physical health.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 305.
__________
O maid-servant of God!  The prayers which were written for the purpose of healing are both for the spiritual and material healing.  Therefore chant them for the spiritual and material healing.  If healing is best for the patient surely it will be granted.  For some who are sick, healing for them would only be the cause of other ills.  Thus it is that wisdom does not decree the answer to some prayers.
O maid-servant of God!  The power of the Holy Spirit heals both material and spiritual ills.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Daily Lessons Received in Acca, p. 95.
__________
It is not the body which feels pain or trouble, but the soul.  If we have a pain in our arm the defect is in the body yet it is the soul which feels the pain and is troubled, not the body, though the body is the cause of that trouble.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
My spiritual health is always perfect.  I enjoy an eternal health of the spirit.  I hope all of the people of the world will win this celestial gift.  Pray that the spiritual health of mankind may be improved daily, for there are many doctors who attend to the physical ailments of the people, but there are very few divine physicians.  It is in this connection that Christ said:  "Do not be afraid of those people who have control over your body, but have fear of those who may control your spirit."  Let your spirit be free so that it may soar toward the heights
page 231
of sanctity.  Let your spirit unfold the white wings of progress.  Often physical sickness draws man nearer unto his Maker, suffers his heart to be made empty of all worldly desires until it becomes tender and sympathetic toward all sufferers and compassionate to all creatures.  Although physical diseases cause man to suffer temporarily, yet they do not touch his spirit.  Nay, rather, they contribute toward the divine purpose; that is, spiritual susceptibilities will be created in his heart.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 27 October 1913.
__________
O thou who art conscious!  At last thou didst learn of salvation and didst find the straight way.  Now remain firm that thou mayest attain confirmation and victory.
The powers of the sympathetic nerve are neither entirely physical nor spiritual, but are between the two (systems).  The nerve is connected with both.  Its phenomena will be perfect when its spiritual and physical relations are normal.
When the material world and the divine world are well co-related, when the hearts become heavenly and the aspirations grow pure and divine, perfect connection will take place.  Then will its power produce a perfect manifestation.  Physical and spiritual diseases will then receive absolute healing.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 309.  An answer to the question of a physician regarding the sympathetic nervous system.
__________
Christ healed by the power of his word, because the word of the Messiah was the Holy Spirit purified from all else.
The words of many speakers are mixed with the lusts of their souls and their worldly appetites; therefore they will have neither authority nor success.
Jesus said:  "Arise, take up thy bed and walk."  He did not use prayers or mental suggestion.  He used spiritual authority in the command which was the power of the Holy Spirit manifest in him.  Therefore his word was obeyed because it was creative.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
As to the fact that man must entirely forget himself, by this is meant that he should arise in the mystery of sacrifice and that is the disappearance of mortal sentiments and the extinction of blameable morals which constitute the temporal gloom, and not that the physical health should be changed into weakness and debility.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 244.
__________
Looking after one's health is done with two intentions.  Man may take good care of his body for the purpose of satisfying his personal wishes.  Or, he may look after his health with the good intention of serving humanity and of living long enough to perform his duty toward mankind.  The latter is most commendable.
A teacher should sleep at night with the thought that the next day he may be refreshed in order to do his duty more fully in relation to teaching his pupils.  Therefore, Mrs ... must take good care of her health.  Just look at Mr ...'s very good health-see how much work he can do, how much work he can stand!  Whatever work is referred to him, he can discharge it fully.  But remember that the essential health is spiritual health, for by means of spiritual health eternal life is obtained; whereas, through physical health only temporal results are achieved.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  A Heavenly Feast, p. 11.
__________
If the health and well-being of the body be expended in the path of the Kingdom, this is very acceptable and praiseworthy; if it is expended for the benefit of the human world in general-even though it be for their material ben-
page 232
efit and be a means of doing good-that is also acceptable.  But if the health and welfare of man be spent in sensual desires, in a life on the animal plane and in devilish pursuits-then disease is better than such health; nay, death itself is preferable to such a life.  If thou art desirous of health, wish thou health for serving the Kingdom, I hope that thou mayest attain a perfect insight, an inflexible resolution, complete health and spiritual and physical strength in order that thou mayest drink from the fountain of eternal life and be assisted by the spirit of divine confirmation.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 207.
__________
O thou who art supplicating unto God!  I read thy precious letter and am informed of its contents, which show that thou art ill in body and weak, and indicates thine affection toward thy daughter who is in the age of youth.
I beseech God to ordain prosperity unto thee in this world, to confer favour upon thee in his supreme Kingdom, and to heal thee from the illness which has befallen thee for some hidden reason which no one knows save God.  Verily, the will of God engages occasionally in some matter for which mankind is unable to find out the reason.  The causes and reasons shall appear.  Trust in God and confide in him, and resign thyself to the will of God.  Verily, thy God is affectionate, compassionate and merciful.  He will look at thee with the glances of the eye of mercifulness, will guard thee with the eye of bounty, and will cause his mercy to descend upon thee.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
I hope, as you have received physical health, you will receive your spiritual health.  As the body will be cured of physical diseases, in the same way the spirit will be cured of all spiritual diseases.  A cure of physical disease is very easy, but the cure of spiritual disease is very difficult.  If one has fever and you give him medicine, the fever will vanish; but if the spirit is afflicted with the disease of ignorance, it is difficult to remove that disease.  For example, if the spiritual health is afflicted with the love of the world, spiritual medicine must be given.  These medicines are the advices and commands of God, which will have effect upon it.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to Mme L'Astre, 'Akká, January 1905.
__________
For these thy prevailing diseases are not on account of sins, but they are to make thee detest this world and know
page 233
that there is no rest and composure in this temporal life.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 185.
__________
O thou who art attracted to God!  May God uphold thee. ...; he who is filled with the love of Bahá, and forgets all things, the Holy Spirit will be heard from his lips and the spirit of life will fill his heart, the lights of the sign will shine forth from his face, words will issue from his mouth in strands of pearls, and all sickness and disease will be healed by the laying on of the hands.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Turning the face toward God brings healing to the body, the mind and the soul.  When this advancement toward God has become complete, one is able to overcome passion and desire, one becomes protected from sin and transgression and is delivered from heedlessness.  This will bestow eternal life and will grant the imperishable gift.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Prayers-for spiritual and physical healing
O thou kind God!  To me thou art kinder than myself, and thy love is more abundant and more ancient.  Whenever I am reminded of thy bestowals I am made happy and hopeful.  If I have been agitated I obtain ease of heart and soul.  If I am sick, I gain eternal health.  If I am disloyal, I become loyal.  If I have been hopeless, I become hopeful.  O thou Lord of the Kingdom!  Cause thou the rejoicing of my heart; empower my weak spirit and strengthen my exhausted nerves.  Illumine thou my eyes:  suffer my ears to become hearing, so that I may hearken to the music of the Kingdom and attain to the joy and happiness everlasting.  Verily, thou art the Generous, the Giver, and the Kind!
'Abdu'l-Bahá


VIII:18, 7 February 1918
page 234
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb of Portland, Oregon.
[Extracts available elsewhere have been omitted]
[Chapter I appeared in issue VII:16; Chapter II appeared in issues VII:18 & 19; Chapter III appeared in issue VIII:2; Chapter IV appeared in issue VIII:4; Chapter V appeared in issue VIII:6; Chapter VI appeared in issue VIII:8; Chapter VII appeared in issues VIII:10 & 11; and Chapter IX appeared in issue VIII:18.]
CHAPTER IX
Tests
...
page 235
Thou hast questioned concerning ordeals and difficulties and catastrophes:  "Are these from God or the result of man's (own) evil deeds?"
Know thou that ordeals are of two kinds:  One kind is for trial (to test the soul), and the other is punishment for actions.  ("As a man soweth so shall he also reap.")  That which is for testing is educational and developmental and that which is the punishment of deeds is severe retribution.
The father and the teacher sometimes humour the children and then again discipline them.  This discipline is for educational purposes and is indeed to give them true happiness; it is absolute kindness and true providence.  Although in appearance it is wrath yet in reality it is kindness.  Although outwardly it is an ordeal yet inwardly it is purifying water.
Verily, in both cases we must supplicate and implore and commune to the divine Threshold in order to be patient in ordeals.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to Portland, Oregon, believer; translated 27 July 1909.
__________
O ye friends of God!  The joy and happiness of the people of faithfulness consist in serving the Threshold of the Most High and turning their faces to the Kingdom of Abhá.  The hope of the lovers is self-sacrificing and the yearning of the longing ones is self-effacement and evanescence.  For love is an irresistible power and an inextinguishable conflagration and the mirror of the love of God is the great martyrdom.  Therefore, the sanctified souls and the Manifestations of God yearned for self-abnegation and attainment to the city of martyrdom.  They gave up their lives, experienced exile and banishment, endured persecution and dire calamities, became subject to imprisonment and bondage and the targets of the arrows of oppression and objects of the sword of malice.  They did not complain; neither did they become disheartened.  They drank the cup of martyrdom from the hand of the Cup-bearer of Providence and tasted with the greatest joy the sweetness of annihilation.  They found not a moment of rest.  They sought not an instant of tranquillity.  They withstood the persecution of the enemies and became the Centres of the derision and scoffing of the people of envy.  They sacrificed their homes and property and became homeless and wanderers.  They experienced not one hour of safety nor a day of repose of mind and body.  This
page 236
is the proof of the sincere lover and this is the evidence of the faithful friend.  If it were not so every stranger would become a friend and the deprived one would become the confidant of the mysteries, the remote one would become the near one and the outcast would become the beloved.  Consequently the most great wisdom has ordained that the fire of tests shall rage and the rushing torrent of ordeals sweep tumultuously from the mountain of revelation, so that the untruthful may become distinguished from the truthful, the unrighteous be known from the righteous, the worshipper of self be separated from the worshipper of God, the good fruit be set apart from the evil fruit, the signs of light be manifest and the gloom of darkness be dispelled, the nightingale of trustworthiness sing the melody of love and the raven of oppression croak the discordant notes of error, the fertile soil become green and verdant and the barren ground produce its thorns and thistles, the ones attracted to the breath of Abhá become firm and the followers of passion and desire turn away.  This is the wisdom of trials and this is the cause of ordeals.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahai News, No. 3, pp. 2-3.
__________
Thy detailed letter was received.  Its perusal produced the utmost happiness for it revealed the fact that thou hast attained to the knowledge of the reality of tests; namely, that tests endured in the path of God are conducive to confirmation, nay, rather, they are heavenly powers and the bounties of the realm of Might.  But to the weak believers tests are trials and examination, for, on account of the weakness of their faith and assurance they fall into difficulties and vicissitudes.  However, to those souls who are firm and steadfast, tests are the greatest favours.
Consider thou that at the time of an examination in sciences and arts, the dull and lazy pupil finds himself in calamity.  But to the intelligent and sagacious student, examination in learning produces honour and infinite happiness.  Alloyed gold subjected to the fire portrays its baseness.  While the intensity of the flame enhances the beauty of the (pure) gold.  Therefore, tests to the weak souls are calamity and to the veiled ones the cause of their disgrace and humiliation.
The point is this, that in the path of Truth every difficulty is made plain and every trial is a matchless bounty.
Therefore, the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful must not relax during trials, and no disaster must deter their service in the Cause of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Daily Lessons Received at Acca, pp. 85-86.
__________
That soul is alone who is negligent of God.  But if he knows God, although he may live in an interminable desert without water and vegetation yet he is not alone,-God is with him.  The sky of this terrestrial globe is always obscure and misty and covered with black, inky clouds.  Now the thunder rolls and anon the lightning flashes.  Now the hail falls and again the snow descends.  Now there is a wild hurricane and then a tempestuous torrent rushing down from the mountain side.  Therefore, do not think for one moment that these trials and ordeals are confined to thee.  In reality all the people are surrounded with sufferings so that they may not attach their hearts to the world, but will seek for composure and rest in the divine world and beg for the bestowal of the Kingdom.  Consequently be thou glad from the bottom of thy heart and be rejoiced through the divine glad tidings.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 20 July 1914.


VIII:19, 2 March 1918
page 238
The Divine Art of Living (continued)1
CHAPTER IX (continued)
Tests
As to trials (tests in the path of God), verily, they are necessary.  Hast thou not heard and read how there appeared trials from God in the day of Jesus, and thereafter, and how the whirlwind of tests became severe?  Even the glorious Peter was not rescued from the flame of trials, and wavered.  Then he repented and mourned the mourning of a bereaved one and his lamentations raised unto the Supreme Concourse.  Is it, then, possible to be saved from the trials of
page 239
God?  No, verily.  There is a great wisdom therein of which no one is aware save the wise and knowing.  Were it not for tests, genuine gold could not be distinguished from the counterfeit.  Were it not for tests, the courageous could not be known from the coward.  Were it not for tests, the people of faithfulness could not be known from those of selfishness.  Were it not for tests, the intellects and faculties of the scholars in the great colleges would not be developed.  Were it not for tests, the sparkling gems could not be known from worthless pebbles.  Were it not for tests, the fisherman could not be distinguished from Annas and Caiaphas who were amid glory (worldly dignity).
Were it not for tests the face of Mary, the Magdalene, would not glisten with the light of firmness and certainty unto all the horizons.  These are some of the mysteries of tests which we have unfolded unto thee that thou mayest become cognizant of the mysteries of God in every cycle.  Verily, I pray God to illumine the faces as pure gold in the fire of tests.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to an American believer, 23 December 1902.  [Refer to Star of the West, XIV:12, p. 355.]
__________
Verily, I read thy latest letter, and my great love welled forth unto thee on account of its wonderful contents.  Verily, it showed thy firmness in the Cause of God and that thou wilt resist great tests in the future.
As to thee, make firm the footsteps of the believers of God on this right path, and say, verily, the test has a great power and when its storms wax fierce they uproot everything, even large and well-rooted trees and they wreck great ships on the ocean.
But whosoever among the maidservants of God firmly resists a great test, her face shall gleam and her brow shall glitter in the Supreme Concourse.  This is what we inform thee, so that when the test appears thou mayest be heedful thereof, and mayst remind the maid-servants of God that the tests have also occurred in former dispensations, even at the time of Christ.
Christ said, "Fast, so that you may not fall into temptation."  Verily, tests withheld a great apostle (Judas) from the mercy of God and made him take part in the shedding of the blood of Jesus.  Tests made Peter, the apostle, deny Jesus Christ.  Tests made the brothers of Jesus deny him.  Many a just, faithful and assured soul did not endure the power of tests but turned backward, until they reached the lowest of the low.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Daily Lessons Received at Acca, pp. 97-98.
__________
[Tablet to Charles F. Haney, May 1911.]
[Thou art not and shall never be forgotten.]  Be thou resolute and steadfast [strong and firm].  When the tree is firmly rooted, it will bear fruit.  Therefore, it is not permitted to be agitated by any test.  Be thou not disheartened!  Be thou not discouraged!  The trials of God are many, but if man remains firm and steadfast the test itself is a stepping-stone for the progress of humanity.
[I hope that thou mayest show such firmness in the Cause of the Kingdom that all may remain astonished.]
'Abdu'l-Bahá
[Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.  Additions and alternatives are from Star of the West, X:19, p. 348.]
__________
The rain does not stop.  I have been intending every day to go up the mountain, but I have been detained on account of the rain.  This is the rainy season.  If the rain does not pour down, if the wind does not blow, if the storm and tempest do not rage, the soul-refreshing springtime will not appear.  If the clouds do not weep the meadows will not laugh.  The hurricane and tornado, the cyclone and the blast are the harbingers of the spring.
Likewise, were there no tests and trials, no hardships and afflictions the attraction of the hearts could not be realized, the spiritual fragrances could not be obtained, nor could merciful happiness be acquired and the beauties of the celestial springtime would not have been disclosed.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 10 January 1914.
page 240
__________
Thou hast manifested joy at the freedom of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This happiness came from thy great love.  There is no doubt that the friends have become joyful on account of the liberation of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  But I was thankful for this prison in the path of God and the lack of liberty was very pleasing to me, for those days were passed in the path of the love of God with the utmost difficulty and trials, bearing fruits and results.  Unless one accept suffering, undergo trials and endure vicissitudes he will reap no reward nor will he attain success and prosperity.  Therefore, thou must likewise endure great tests so that the infinite divine outpourings may encircle thee and that thou mayest be assisted in spreading the fragrances of God.  Behold the apostles of His Highness, Christ!  They accepted all trials and persecutions and received all kinds of oppression and trouble until they became assisted by great bestowals and confirmed in the guidance of the people.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet.
__________
My happiness was complete in those dark days of imprisonment and vicissitude.  I was happier than now, because I had no will of my own.  I was perfectly resigned.  The life of this world is only a few days.  Whether happy or unhappy, in freedom or in bonds, healthy or ill, in comfort or in poverty,-they will pass away.  The one who is established on the throne and the one sitting on the mat-both will cease to exist here.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 1 April 1914.
__________
It is difficult for the weak ones to endure the tests but for souls like you, it is very easy.  It is my hope that during the time of tests thou mayest remain in the utmost firmness and steadfastness, so that like unto a lamp thou mayest be protected within the glass, and be not extinguished by the blowing of winds.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to an American believer; translated 4 August 1911.
page 241
__________
The higher our station is, the nearer we are to God and the more severe do our tests become; when we have received great blessings, we are apt to become self-confident and think that we are secure from falling, and then is our danger great.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Notes of Miss E. J. Rosenberg, 'Akká, 1901.
__________
Rest assured in the protection of God.  He will preserve his own children under all circumstances.  Be ye not afraid nor be ye agitated.  He holds the sceptre of power in his hand, and like unto a hen he gathereth his chickens under his wings.  "To everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under the sun.  A time to be born, and a time to die, a time to weep and a time to laugh; a time to keep silent and a time to speak."  Now, friends, this is the time of assurance and faith and not fear and dread.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 5 June 1914.
__________
These people who called on us today were in a state of fright.  They are expecting daily the bombardment of Haifa by the foreign warships.  As soon as they see a little moving speck in the horizon of the sea, they look through their glasses, anxiously scanning to see whether these are the expected cruisers.  Their hearts are in a state of anxiety.  They are terror-stricken.  They have no peace of mind.  This is one of the signs of absence of faith.  It is stated in the Qur'án:  "They imagine every cry raised is an enemy unto them."  For example, when a thief enters a house, the least noise causes his flight.  He trembles and quakes.
But the hearts of the people of faith are assured.  If they are surrounded by a thousand enemies they stand firm on their ground.  The greatest divine bounty is a confident heart.  When the heart is confident, all the trials of the world will be as child's play.  Should they throw him into prison, should they cast him into a black well, should they heap upon him all manner of afflictions, still his heart is content, peaceful and assured.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 18 October 1914.
__________
To enter the Kingdom is easy, but to remain firm and constant is difficult.  The planting of trees is easy but their cultivation and training to strengthen their roots and to make them firm is difficult.  Now, as thou art a firm tree, thou shalt certainly grow and send out branches, leaves and blossoms and bear fruits.  These branches, leaves, blossoms and fruits are the souls who may be guided, through the providence of God, by thee.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 105.
__________
Man must seek to gain the acceptance of God and not that of the different classes of men.  If one is praised and chosen by God, the accusation of all the creatures will cause no loss to him; and if a man is not accepted at the Threshold of God the praise and admiration of all men will be of no use to him.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 158.
__________
Thou hast written concerning the tests that have come upon thee.  To the sincere ones, tests are as a gift from God, the Exalted, for a heroic person hasteneth, with the utmost joy and gladness, to the tests of a violent battlefield, but the coward is afraid and trembles and utters moaning and lamentation.  Likewise, an expert student prepareth and memorizeth his lessons and exercises with the utmost effort, and in the day of examination he appeareth with infinite joy before the master.  Likewise the pure gold shineth radiantly in the fire of test.
page 242
Consequently, it is made clear that for holy souls, trials are as the gift of God, the Exalted; but for weak souls they are an unexpected calamity.  This test is just as thou hast written:  it removeth the rust of egotism from the mirror of the heart until the Sun of Truth may shine therein.  For, no veil is greater than egotism and no matter how thin that covering may be, yet it will finally veil man entirely and prevent him from receiving a portion of the eternal bounty.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 722.
__________
Be not sorrowful on account of the affliction of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, for calamity is a light whereby his face glistens among the Supreme Concourse; affliction is healing to his breast, joy to his heart, happiness to his soul; nay, rather, a most honoured garment upon his temple, best gown upon his body, and dearest crown on his head.  This is his utmost desire.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet to Johnstown Bahá'í Assembly; translated 24 June 1902.
__________
Ye have expressed words of solicitude and anxiety over the troubles and persecutions which have fallen upon this imprisoned one.  Do not be at all sad, be ye not affected.  Do not worry, for incarceration to this prisoner is a feast of bliss and a perpetual paradise.  Persecutions and adversities are the merciful gifts.  If these persecutions and sufferings did not exist in the path of God, how could 'Abdu'l-Bahá obtain happiness and peace?  Through the appearance of tests, my heart is consoled, and through the experiencing of dire afflictions my soul is calmed.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to Oakland Assembly; translated 17 July 1908.
__________
Hájí Kamálu'd-Dín was one of God's own servants, severed from aught else save him, enkindled, trusting in God and free from every tie.  Before accepting this Cause, he was much respected and honoured in Naráq.  When he embraced this Cause, they pursued him with such dogged perseverance and enmity that he was finally obliged to leave his native land and come to Baghdád.  Having arrived, he found himself in most difficult circumstances, and in great need of his daily bread.  Being a man of letters, he had never essayed any work; but putting aside his pride, he opened-with a small capital given to him-a little grocery shop at the entrance to the curious boat-shaped bridge of the Euphrates, where multitudes of people cross and re-cross daily.  Not for one moment did he think of his noble connections nor brood over his former position of leisure, ease and worldly honour.  He never bothered his mind over what his many countrymen might think who passed yearly by his store to visit the Holy Shrine of the Imams in Najaf and Karbilá; nay, rather, he sat there serene and with the happiness of the Kingdom and the joy of heaven in his heart.  The spiritual station of that household will become evident in the future.  Whenever he would hear that the Blessed Perfection had gone to Kázimayn, although the distance was several miles and the weather hot, he would immediately shut his store and start for that town afoot.  Although at that time one could hire a donkey for five cents yet he could not very well afford this lavish expenditure.  Nevertheless you never saw him cross or bad-tempered.  He was a source of delight and happiness to all.  Such souls are the bright gems in the crown of existence.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 21 June 1914.
__________
Grieve not at the divine trials.  Be not troubled because of hardships and ordeals; turn unto God, bowing in hum-
page 243
bleness and praying to him, while bearing every ordeal, contented under all conditions and thankful in every difficulty.  Verily, thy Lord loveth his maid-servants who are patient, believing and firm.  He draws them nigh to him through these ordeals and trials.
Be not sorrowful on account of the departure of thy good son.  He hath indeed departed from this narrow and gloomy world which is darkened by unlimited sorrow, unto the Kingdom which is spacious, illumined, joyous and beautiful.  God delivered him from this dark well and promoted him unto the Supreme Height!  He gave him wings whereby he soared to the heaven of happiness.  Verily, this is the great mercy from him who is precious and forgiving.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 51.
__________
"I have heard thy cries and am conscious of thy tears.  Remember at all times and in all places that God is faithful and do not doubt this.  Be patient even though great calamities may come upon thee.  Yet fear not!  Be firm in the path of thy Lord; as a mountain unmoved, unchanging in thy steadfastness."
These words were written by Bahá'u'lláh to Mírzá Haydar 'Alí to strengthen him during great persecutions.  In his early days Mírzá Haydar 'Alí travelled from city to city in Persia proclaiming with great wisdom and love the glad tidings of the new and divine day which was dawning upon the earth.  But the fanatical religious leaders to whom the vision of universal brotherhood and peace was too bright to be endured soon persecuted him with terrible bitterness.  At one time he was beaten and driven through the streets of a city by a wild and howling mob.  During this experience he cried out, "This is my triumphal procession."  Again he was transported from one prison to another in a very cruel fashion.  His hands and feet were tied and he was put in a bag, head downward, and flung across the back of a donkey.  Another Bahá'í was put in a bag on the donkey's other side.  The head of each of the prisoners dragged
page 244
on the sand as the donkey was driven the long journey over the desert.  Mírzá Haydar 'Alí sang gaily as they went along.  The guard whipped him unmercifully, saying, "Now, will you sing?"  Mírzá Haydar 'Alí replied, "I will sing more gladly than ever because you have given me the pleasure of enduring something for the sake of God."
For twelve years Mírzá Haydar 'Alí was a prisoner in Khartoum, Egypt.  The dungeon-room in which he was confined had a tiny window through which the sun shone but one hour a day.  For one precious hour every day Mírzá Haydar 'Alí read with glowing heart the Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh.  The rest of the day he was in the twilight.  But he concentrated his spirit upon the glory of God so perfectly that each day he grew more saintly.
When, in later years, he was asked by Miss Stevens why the Bahá'ís all looked so happy (she was thinking especially of the radiant joy in his face), he replied, "Sometimes we have surface troubles, but that cannot touch our happiness.  The hearts of those who belong to the Kingdom are like the sea.  When the wind is rough it troubles the surface of the water; but two metres down there is perfect calmness."
Fortnightly Review, June 1911.
__________
Mrs Lua Getsinger was one day in 'Akká.  A western woman was there also and she was telling 'Abdu'l-Bahá all about her troubles.  This was a strange thing to do for usually people when they enter the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are so filled with the contagion of his radiant love that they think only of their blessings.  'Abdu'l-Bahá with great kindness listened for half an hour to the western woman's troubles; they were really not very big troubles.  At last he arose, and said he had another engagement and must be going.  "But there," he said, pointing out of the window, "goes a man whom I will bring in to see you.  His name is Mírzá Haydar 'Alí.  We call him the 'Angel of Mount Carmel'.  He walks on earth but he lives in heaven.  He has had many troubles and he will tell you about them."  'Abdu'l-Bahá went out, but quickly returned with Mírzá Haydar 'Alí whom he presented to the woman, and then departed.
The "Angel of Mount Carmel" with great humility and sweetness of manner began to talk with the woman of the luminous century in which we live and the divine age that is to be.  She listened for a while, impatiently, and at last broke in with, "But 'Abdu'l-Bahá said you would tell me about your troubles."  Mírzá Haydar 'Alí looked up in amazement.
"Troubles?" he replied, "why madam, I never had any troubles, I don't know what troubles are."
__________
O ye beloved of God!  When the winds blow severely, rains fall fiercely, the lightning flashes, the thunder roars, the bolts descend and storms of trial become severe, grieve not; for after this storm, verily, the divine spring will arrive, the hills and fields will become verdant, the expanses of grain will joyfully wave, the earth will become covered with blossoms, the trees will be clothed with green garments and adorned with blossoms and fruits.  Thus blessings become manifest in all countries.  These favours are results of those storms and hurricanes.
The discerning man rejoiceth at the day of trials, his breast becometh dilated at the time of severe storms, his eyes become brightened when seeing the showers of rain and gusts of wind whereby trees are uprooted; because he foreseeth the result and the end,-the leaves, blossoms and fruits; while the ignorant person becometh troubled when he seeth a storm, is saddened when it raineth severely, is terrified by the thunder and trembleth at the surging of the waves which storm the shore.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 13.


VIII:19, 2 March 1918
page 237
"This is the conduct and manners of the people of Bahá"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Compiled from the Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, pages indicated.
O ye sanctified souls!  It is the time of firmness and steadfastness and the period of arising in the service of the Word of God, for the Blessed City ('Akká) is environed from all directions with the tempestuous waves of tests and trials and the sweeping hurricanes, of persecutions and hardships are blowing and roaring high.  The joy and happiness of the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá depends upon the stability and constancy of the believers.  For they must live and act in accord with the divine advices and exhortations and show forth to each other the power of the perfection of love with infinite accord and unity, so that they may become the embodiment of one existence, the waves of one sea, the myrtles of one rose-garden, the rays of one sun, the stars of one horizon, the fruits of one tree and the birds of one meadow.
Likewise, they must treat with and behave toward all the governments, nations, communities, kings and subjects with the utmost sincerity, trustworthiness, straightforwardness, love and kindness.  Even they must make hopeful a bloodthirsty enemy, show sympathy with the utmost faithfulness and honour to the perfidious unjust, know the ill-wisher as the well-wisher and torment not the sinner with reproaches.  Should they become the targets of a thousand arrows of persecution, they must challenge it with love and friendship and treat every one with purity of purpose and kindness.
O ye friends of God!  Show ye an endeavour that all the nations and communities of the world, even the enemies, put their trust, assurance and hope in you; that if a person falls into errors for a hundred-thousand times he may yet turn his face to you, hopeful that you will forgive his sins; for he must not become hopeless, neither grieved nor despondent.  This is the conduct and the manners of the people of Bahá.  This is the foundation of the most high pathway!  Ye should conform your conduct and manners with the advices of 'Abdu'l-Bahá. (pp. 435-436.)
If any one of you enters a city he must become the centre of attraction because of the sincerity, faithfulness, love, honesty, fidelity, truthfulness and loving-kindness of his disposition and nature toward all the inhabitants of the world, that the people of the city may all cry out:  "This person is unquestionably a Bahá'í; for his manners, his behaviour, his conduct, his morals, his nature and his disposition are of the attributes of the Bahá'ís."  Until you do attain to this station, you have not fulfilled the Covenant and the Testament of God.  For according to the irrefutable texts, he has taken from us a firm covenant that we may live and act in accord with
page 238
the divine exhortations, commands and lordly teachings. (p. 42.)
Arise with every power to assist the Covenant of God and serve in his vineyard.  Be confident that a confirmation will be granted unto you and a success on his part is given unto you.  Verily, he shall support you by the angels of his holiness and reinforce you with the breaths of the spirit that ye may enter the Ark of Safety, set forth the evident signs, impart the spirit of life, declare the essence of his commands and precepts, guide the sheep who are straying from the fold in all directions, and give the blessings.  Ye have to use every effort in your power and strive earnestly and wisely in this new century.  By God, verily the Lord of Hosts is your support, the angels of heaven your assistance, the Holy Spirit your companion and the Centre of the Covenant your helper.  Be not idle, but active and fear not. ...  Ye are now in a great station and noble rank and ye shall find yourselves in evident success and prosperity, the like of which the eye of existence never saw in former ages.  Bahá and salutations be upon every one who is firm in the Covenant, free from dissension, sanctified from deceits and steadfast in the path. (p. 162.)


VIII:19, 2 March 1918
page 238
Habits of prayer in the Orient
From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 3 October 1913.
Here in the East everybody arises very early so that between five and six o'clock we are all out of our beds with the words, "Alláh-u-Abhá", on our lips, greeting each other.  There are four customs that have impressed me deeply and are significant signs of the religious nature of these people.
First:  Their uniform early rising.  Although in the West it is taught, "Early to bed and early to rise", it is seldom practised.
Second:  No sooner do they open their eyes than the holy name of God is upon their lips, thanking him for all his past graces and future bestowals.
Third:  Their quiet, solitary prayer and concentration lasting from ten to thirty minutes according to the religious spirit of the individual.
Fourth:  As soon as they have finished their individual prayer and before taking their breakfast they assemble in the reception room and pray to God, read communes or chant tablets.  They will then, refreshed by the spiritual food, gather around the table to partake of the material breakfast.


XI:1, 21 March 1918
page 5
"Bahá'u'lláh is the Promised One expected by all nations"
A compilation by Mrs Mary M. Rabb.
From the Words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
[Texts available in earlier volumes and elsewhere omitted.  Some Writings of Bahá'u'lláh could not be found elsewhere or only as fragments.]
The promised one of all the nations of the world has become apparent and manifest.  Each community and religion expects the coming of their promised one, and his highness, Bahá'u'lláh, is the promised one of all.  Therefore, the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is conducive to harmony, raises the canopy of the oneness of the kingdom of humanity upon the apex of the contingent beings, and unfurls the ensign of universal brotherhood and ideal commonwealth upon the summit of the hills and mountains.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from a Tablet revealed for an American Bahá'í; translated by Mírzá Sohráb, 14 December 1908.
__________
Praise be to God, he hath appeared with a luminous countenance.  Verily, the promised one is his highness, Bahá'u'lláh, who hath dawned from the eastern horizons like unto a glorious sun and hath diffused the rays of the most great guidance (i.e., the heavenly teachings), in all the countries of the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from a Tablet to the Los Angeles assembly of Bahá'ís; translated 10 July 1913.
__________
Regarding the appearance of Christ, there were many prophecies in the Bible which foretold his coming. ...  The teachings of Moses were like a seed, but when the seed grew into a plant and bore blossom, then fruit-the fruit signified Christ, who was the result of all the teachings of Moses. ...  As to the Manifestation (Bahá'u'lláh) all the religious books in the world bear witness to him.  The Magis have resisted the Muslims for nearly 1,400 years, refusing to accept Islám, and suffered great persecutions.  They accept and believe in the Manifestation (Bahá'u'lláh), because of the prophecies of their books.  The Jews would not accept Christ, but, because they see their Bible prophecies literally fulfilled, they are becoming believers in great numbers.  All of the Qur'án bears witness to the coming of God.  It is said:  "O people, you will meet God in the flesh; you will visit him."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From notes of Mrs Sarah Herron, 1900).
__________
O thou who art looking for the Kingdom of God!  Thy letter was considered.  Glad tidings be unto thee for thy supreme wish became manifest in the assemblage of the world.  The spacious Kingdom was newly adorned, and like unto paradise, manifested beautiful scenes.  The King of the Kingdom established his canopy in the centre of the universe.  The Sun of Truth dawned and the light of God appeared.  The banner of holiness was lifted up and the Holy Spirit began its work of confirming.  The fragrance of God emanated and his divine Spirit conferred life.  Turn absolutely to that Kingdom, and thou wilt see, at every moment, new manifestations.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from a Tablet to an American believer, dated 12 February 1904.
page 6
__________
All nations were promised by a sure promise and were awaiting with anxiety and longing the coming of the promised one.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Tablet to an American believer, dated 9 June 1903.
__________
The Lord of the day of the Manifestation is his highness, Bahá'u'lláh.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet, dated 20 July 1911.
__________
What is meant in the prophecies by the Lord of hosts, the promised Christ, is the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh) and his highness, the Supreme (Báb).
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet revealed for the New York Assembly of Bahá'ís; translated by Mírzá Sohráb, 1 January 1907.
__________
The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is in fulfilment of all the prophecies in all the books of the religions of the world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 13 July 1914.
__________
"What art thou reading?"  "A lecture on the coming world teacher, by Mrs Besant."  "The great world teacher has already come," 'Abdu'l-Bahá said.
From Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, dated 26 July 1914.
__________
The "One who is to come" is he who was promised in the books of God and his epistles; that is, this Manifestation.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From a Tablet dated 13 March 1903.
__________
The Manifestation (Bahá'u'lláh) had all the qualities of the Sun of Truth manifested in him.  All of the learned and wise men confessed that the teachings of the Manifestation were complete and perfect.  The glory of the Manifestation was acknowledged by people of all nations of the earth, but they did not believe in his divinity.  People of all nations composed poetry in praise of the Manifestation.  The explanations of the Manifestation were all revelations, and there is not a single learned man on the earth who can produce the like of them.  During fifty years the Manifestation withstood all nations of the earth.  Though all nations were against him and contradicted him, they were always submissive and humble before him.  As the miracles and the extraordinary signs of the Manifestation will not be proof for the centuries to come after this, we have not mentioned them.  The miracles are only proof for those who are present, not for those who are to come, for the idolators have also recorded miracles, on the part of their gods, in their books.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From notes of Mrs Herron, 1900.
__________
The Zoroastrians, who were very numerous throughout Persia, notwithstanding all the calamities and sufferings inflicted upon them by the Muslims, would not accept the teachings of Muhammad, but they say that their books plainly indicate the coming of the Manifestation in this time and many of them have accepted this religion because of this fact. ...  All the Old Testament prophecies foretold the coming of Christ.  The Gospel of Christ shadowed forth the coming of the Manifestation (Bahá'u'lláh).  There is a sect in Persia of the Pársí faith, who would not read the Qur'án or the Bible, but who have now organized an assembly under the laws of the British and Persian governments, and day before yesterday (3 December 1900) 'Abdu'l-Bahá received a letter from the chief acknowledging Bahá'u'lláh to be the divine Manifestation of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From notes of Mrs Sarah Herron, 1900.
page 7
__________
Let us consider the prophecies announcing the coming of God or the Manifestation:  The coming of the Kingdom of God is foretold in all the holy books, and these sayings are not confined to a small number, but the books are full of them-especially Daniel and Isaiah.  It is plainly stated in the Bible that, "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.  Howbeit when he, the spirit of truth is come, he will guide you into all truth."  This refers to the Manifestation.  Christians have always believed that this refers to the Holy Spirit.  How can this be?  The Holy Spirit (Christ) was already in the world.  He came in Jesus when he was born. ...  The Qur'án says, "There is a day in which the Lord shall come." and again, "Know ye that ye shall meet him." ...  The prophecies in the books of Zoroaster plainly foretold the coming of the Báb and the Manifestation.
There are no prophecies to foretell the coming of Moses, but for the coming of Jesus we find them, and in the Bible the coming of Muhammad was mentioned in the Gospels as the Advocate; but regarding the coming of the Báb and the Manifestation, all the religious Books foretell of them-the Bible, the Gospels, the Qur'án, the holy traditions of 'Alí, and the Zoroastrian writings; all are quite plain on this point.  No one can contradict them.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From notes of Mrs Herron, 1900.
__________
The world of humanity has ever been in a state of anticipation of the coming of the divine Manifestations.  Each religion expected the coming of a promised one.  They longingly prayed for the dawn of the Sun of Reality.  A thousand times alas, when he appeared they remained heedless and did not turn their faces toward him!  Pitiful indeed is this condition.  They were praying for the glorious dawn of the Sun of Reality, but when it appeared from the eastern horizon they exclaimed:  "Where is the sun?  We do not see it."  For instance, the Jewish nation expected the coming of a Messiah. ...  They were hoping for the arrival of their promised one, but when his holiness, Christ, appeared they turned away from him. ...
This century is the century of the Sun of Reality.  This century is the century of the establishment of the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extracts from address to Theosophists, 13 February 1913.
__________
But now after the lapse of many centuries, his highness, the Almighty, has again looked upon them with the glance of mercifulness, and the cup-bearer of celestial bestowals became manifest in the land of Persia.  The Sun of Reality shone forth, casting the effulgences of his graces upon that country.  He proclaimed the heavenly teachings and instituted the religion of the clement Lord. ...
But alas, alas! still the majority of the inhabitants of Persia are in sound sleep and have not heard, neither are they informed of the most eminent bestowal.  The owner of the house has come to the door, but the dwellers in the house have shut the door and do not desire to let him in.  They have treated the friend as though he were the stranger, and the known as though he were unknown.  They seem to say:  "We are satisfied with this degradation.  We are comfortable amidst all these distractions, dissipations, grovelling in dirt and uncleanness.  We do not want the owner of the house.  We are not seeking his faith.  We loathe him and are holding aloof from his favour and grace.  This is not the kind Father but a foreigner.  Even though he may be the beloved one of all the nations of the world, his renown world-conquering, the fame of his grandeur reaching the ears of the rich and poor alike, others from different
page 10
parts of the world entering under the shade of his sacred tree by cohort and cohort, accepting his teachings, and receiving a share from the table of his sustenance."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Sohráb, 13 October 1914.
__________
Thousands of souls, including the great divines and Pharisees among the Jews, were awaiting the Manifestation of Christ, lamenting and weeping and supplicating that the Messiah should soon appear.  But when his holiness, Christ, came with a beautiful face and sweet utterance and dawned from the day-spring of the contingent world like unto the shining sun, all those souls who awaited him rejected him, became afflicted with the sleep of heedlessness, did not wake up by the voice of Christ nor did they gain consciousness.  Now again the same is the case in the Manifestation of Bahá'u'lláh.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 688.
__________
The various religious systems are coming closer together.  Bahá'u'lláh stands at the meeting of their ways to God.  In him the Muslims are going forward to meet their promised Imám Mihdí, the Christians to meet Christ, the Jews their Messiah, and so on.  When they meet Bahá'u'lláh they meet each other as at the top of a mountain.  There they find unity because there they find him.  There is the widest view, the heavenly horizon.  No one but a Manifestation of God can unify the religious systems of the world.  No law, no war, no power of kings could do this.  The Kingdom is a real visible Kingdom, a real unity.  This cannot be attained from books.  It comes from the heart.
Spoken by Mr MacNutt while in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Ten Days in the Light of Acca, pp. 74-75.
page 11
__________
This is indeed the Father, whereof Isaiah gave you tidings and the Comforter whose covenant the Spirit (Christ) hath received. ...  The perfection of the Ancient hath come by his most mighty name and hath desired to make the people enter into the most holy Kingdom, and that the sincere may see the Kingdom of God before his face ...  Blessed is he who fulfileth the Covenant, and woe unto him who breaketh the promise and denieth God, the knower of secrets. ...  Advance thereunto, verily thy glorious Lord hath honoured his country by his coming, thus we teach you the path whereof the Spirit (Christ) hath declared.  Verily, I bear witness for him as he was indeed a witness for me; verily he said:  "Come, that I may make you fishers of men," and today we say, "Come, that we may make you vivifiers of the world."  Thus was the decree ordained in a Tablet written by the Pen of Command.
Bahá'u'lláh:  Extract from a Tablet revealed for the Pope.
__________
We have commanded you to purify your hearts from the love and detestation of those who are upon the earth, lest anything will prevent you from one direction and enforce you to another,-and this is of my greatest advice unto you in a perspicuous Tablet.  He who adhereth to either the one or the other, verily he cannot know the command as it is,-unto this will bear witness every just and informed one.  Ye have forgotten the promise of God, and violated his Covenant in such a manner that ye turned away from the one by whose appearance the eyes of the Unitarians were consoled.  Purify your sight from the hidden and the veiled, than look to the evidences of the prophets and messengers, that ye may know the matter of God in these days wherein the promised one hath come with great sovereignty.
Bahá'u'lláh:  Súriy-i-Hakal, p. 58.
page 12
__________
O king of the earth, hear the voice of this servant.  Verily, I am a man who hath believed in God and his signs, and I have sacrificed myself in his way; to this do the afflictions wherein I am-the like of which none among mankind hath borne!-testify, and my Lord the All-knowing is the witness to what I say.  I have not summoned men unto aught save unto thy Lord and the Lord of the worlds.  In love for him there hath come upon me that whereof the eye of creation hath not beheld the like.
Bahá'u'lláh:  Extract from Tablet revealed for Sháh of Persia.  [Second paragraph in The Proclamation of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 57.]
__________
O thou Temple!  We have made thee a mirror for the kingdom of the names to speak of my dominion among all the creatures and summon all the people to my meeting and beauty and to be a guide to my obvious and upright path.  We have elevated thy name among the servants as a bounty on our part-verily, I am the Ancient Bounty!-and adorned thee with the embroidered garment of myself and cast upon thee my Word to use the authority in the Kingdom as it pleaseth thee and to do what thou willest.  We have ordained to thee the good of the heaven and earth so that no good will be granted to anyone unless he enters thy shadow, as a command on the part of thy Lord, the learned, the informed.  And we have given the rod of command and the divination of authority to enable thee to distinguish the wisdom of every question.  We have shown forth from thy breast the seas of knowledge and revelation in the celebration of thy Lord, the Merciful, in order that thou shouldst praise and be of the thankful.  We have chosen thee from among my creatures and made thee the Manifestation of my soul to whomsoever is in heaven and earth.
Bahá'u'lláh:  Súriy-i-Haykal, p. 51.
__________
O people of the Son (Christians)!  We have sent unto you John the Baptist (the Báb, the precursor of Bahá'u'lláh) another time.  Verily, he crieth in the wilderness of The Bayán:  "O creation of beings, make clear your eyes, the day of vision and meeting hath come nigh; and O people of the Gospel, prepare the way, for the day whereon the Lord of Glory shall come, hath
page 13
drawn nigh.  Prepare yourselves to enter into the Kingdom!"  Thus was the matter decreed on the part of God, the cleaver of the dawn.  Hearken unto the strains which the dove of eternity hath sung upon the branches of the divine Lote-tree and is vocal with the melody of, "O people of the earth!  We have sent unto you him who was named John, to baptize you with water, that your bodies might be purified for the appearance of Christ, and that he (Christ) hath purified you with the fire of love and with the water of the Spirit, as preparation for these days whereon the Merciful hath willed to cleanse your bodies with the Water of Life by the hands of grace and bounty."
Bahá'u'lláh:  Extract from Tablet revealed for the Pope.
__________
His Holiness the Supreme (Báb)-May my life be a ransom for him!-is the promised one of the Qur'án, or in other words he is the Mihdí, the Qá'im, the promised one, who was to appear after his holiness, Muhammad.  The Báb was the radiant Morn of Guidance, the herald of the Beauty of Abhá, the Blessed Perfection, the Sun of Reality-may my life be a sacrifice to him!
Bahá'u'lláh was his holiness, "Him-whom-God-shall-manifest", the promised one of all the books and epistles of his holiness, the Báb.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Extract from Tablet revealed for American believers; translated 19 April 1914.
__________
Here follow some prophecies of the Báb:
"Before the twentieth year the creation of The Bayán will be perfected, and then the new advent shall take place."-(From the Book of Names.)
"In the year nine you shall apprehend all the good."
(This prophecy of the Báb's in The Bayán was fulfilled by the exile of Bahá'u'lláh from Tihrán and his arrival in the ninth year of the Báb's advent.-Note by Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán.)
"I swear by the most holy essence of God-glorious and mighty is he!-that in the day of the manifestation of 'Him-whom-God-shall-manifest', if one should hear a single verse from him and recite it, it is better than that he should recite The Bayán a thousand times."
"All the Bahá (glory) of The Bayán is 'He-whom-God-shall-manifest'.  All mercy be on him who believeth, and all chastisement on him who believeth not in him."
"Verily, I am the first one who worshipped him."
"O people of The Bayán!  Let neither The Bayán and whatever is therein, nor its letters, veil you from 'Him-whom-God-shall-manifest'.  If he abolishes all The Bayán he is the true one, and if he appears with one single verse he is the truth."
"All the divine names and attributes revealed in The Bayán in their primary sense revolve around 'Him-whom-God-shall-manifest'; and in their secondary sense around the 'Branch-extended-from the-Ancient-Root ('Abdu'l-Bahá)'."
The Báb, quoted by Mírzá 'Alí Qulí Khán from The Bayán, in an address at Washington, D.C., June 1903.
__________
"Today, The Bayán is in the stage of seed, but at the beginning of the manifestation of 'Him-whom-God-shall-manifest', the ultimate perfection of The Bayán will become apparent, when he shall gather the fruits of the trees which have been planted." (p. 225.)
"The third chapter of the third Vahíd.  Concerning this, that The Bayán and whosoever is therein revolved around the saying of 'Him-whom-God-shall-manifest', even as the Alif (i.e., the Gospel) and whosoever was therein revolved around the saying of Muhammad the Messenger of God, and as that which God revealed unto him at first and whoso-
page 14
ever was therein revolved around that which he said at the period of his later Manifestation.  The quintessence of this chapter is this, that the gaze of The Bayán is not extended save towards 'Him-whom-God-shall-manifest', for none but he that raised or doth raise it up, even as none but he hath sent or doth send it down.  And The Bayán and such as are believers therein yearn more after him than the yearning of any lover after his beloved." (p. 348.)
"Though the ocean of woe rageth on every side, and the bolts of fate follow in quick succession, and the darkness of griefs and afflictions invade soul and body, yet is my heart brightened by the remembrance of thy countenance and my soul is as a rose-garden from the perfume of thy nature." (p. 18.)
Báb:  Quoted from Prof. E. G. Browne, A Traveller's Narrative, pages indicated.


IX:1, 21 March 1918
page 8
The Feast of Naw-Rúz (New Day)
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá on the Feast of Naw-Rúz, 21 March, at Victoria Hotel, Alexandria, Egypt.  Eighty-five believers were then eating dinner at His table.
[The following is the new translation from the 2nd edn. (AD 2000) of Days to Remember, pp. 25-26.]
According to ancient custom, every nation has general holidays when all the people rejoice and are glad.  That is, they choose the day of the year whereon a great or glorious event had occurred.  On that day they manifest great joy and happiness.  They visit one another; if they have any feelings of bitterness towards one another, they become reconciled on that day; hard feelings pass away and they unite in love for each other.  As great events occurred on the day of Naw-Rúz for the Persians, that nation therefore made it a national feast and considered it a national holiday.
This is, indeed, a blessed day because it is the beginning of the temperate season and the commencement of springtime in the northern hemisphere.  All earthly things, whether trees, animals or humans, become refreshed; they receive power from the life-giving breeze and obtain new life; a resurrection takes place and, because it is the season of springtime, there is a general marvellous activity in all contingent beings.
There was a time when the Persian dynasty died out and no trace remained thereof.  On such a day [Naw-Rúz] a new one was founded.  Jamshíd1 ascended the throne.2  Persia became happy and at peace.  Its power, which had been dissipated, once more returned.  Hearts and souls became possessed of wonderful susceptibilities, to such a degree that Persia became more advanced than it had been in former days under the sovereignty of Kayumars and Húshang.3  The glory and greatness of the government and the nation of Persia rose higher.  Likewise, a great many events occurred upon the day of Naw-Rúz that brought honour and glory to Persia and to the Persians.  Therefore, the Persian nation, for the last five or six thousand years, has always considered the Feast of Naw-Rúz as a day of national happiness, and until now it is sanctified and recognized as a blessed day.
In brief, every nation has a day to mark as a holiday which they celebrate with
page 9
joy.  In the sacred laws of God in every cycle and dispensation, there are blessed feasts, holidays and workless days.  On such days no kind of occupation, commerce, industry, agriculture, or the like, is allowed.  All work is unlawful.  All must enjoy themselves, gather together, hold general meetings, become as one assembly, so that the oneness, unity and harmony of the people may be demonstrated in the eyes of all.  As it is a blessed day it should not be neglected or left without results by making it a day limited to the fruits of mere pleasure.  During such blessed days institutions should be founded that may be of permanent benefit and value to the people so that in their conversations and in history it may become widely known that such a good work was inaugurated on such a feast day.  Therefore, the intelligent must look searchingly into conditions to find out what important affair, what philanthropic institutions are most needed, and what foundations should be laid for the community on that particular day, so that they may be established.  For example, if they find that the community needs morality, then they may lay down the foundation of good morals on that day.  If the community be in need of spreading sciences and widening the circle of knowledge, on that day they should proceed in that direction, that is to say, direct the thoughts of all the people to that philanthropic cause.  If, however, the community is in need of widening the circle of commerce or industry or agriculture, they should inaugurate the means of attaining the desired aim.  If the community needs protection, proper support and care of orphans, they should act upon the welfare of the orphans, and so forth.  Such undertakings as are beneficial to the poor, the weak and the helpless should be pursued in order that, on that day, through the unity of all and through great meetings, results may be obtained, the glory and blessings of that day may be declared and manifest.
Likewise in this wonderful Dispensation this day [Naw-Rúz] is a blessed day.  The friends of God should be confirmed in service and servitude.  With one another they must be in the utmost harmony, love and oneness, clasping hands, engaged in the commemoration of the Blessed Beauty and thinking of the great results that may be obtained on such a blessed day.
Today, there is no result or fruit greater than guiding the people, because these helpless creatures, especially the Persians, have remained without a share in the bestowals of God.  Undoubtedly, the friends of God, upon such a day, must leave tangible, philanthropic or ideal traces that should reach all mankind and not only pertain to the Bahá'ís.
In all the prophetic Dispensations, philanthropic affairs were confined to their respective peoples only-with the exception of small matters, such as charity, which it was permissible to extend to others.  But in this wonderful Dispensation, philanthropic undertakings are for all humanity, without any exception, because this is the manifestation of the mercifulness of God.  Therefore, every universal matter-that is, one that belongs to all the world of humanity-is divine; and every matter that is sectarian and private is not universal in character-that is, it is limited.  Therefore, my hope is that the friends of God, every one of them, may become as the mercy of God to all mankind.
[Original translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago.]


IX:2, 9 April 1918
page 17
Talks by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Holy Land
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.1
The following compilation of some of the blessed utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, after his return to the Holy Land from America, Europe and Egypt, tells some interesting news of that Holy Threshold.
It was on 5 December 1913, that 'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived at his home in Haifa, Syria.  His first words to the family and to the friends who flocked to see him were:  "After the end of three years, again I return to the Holy Land.  Were it not for the assistance and protection of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) I would never have had any hope of returning from such a long journey.  I went as far as Los Angeles, which is situated on the western coast of America and directly opposite the land of 'Akká.  Should a person drill a hole through the earth in that land he would come out here.  Everywhere I went, my thoughts were in 'Akká.  I travelled in many countries.  I saw deserts and valleys, but no place could equal this.  Indeed, the views here are indescribable.  There are many places in other countries, which are famous for their grandeur; but here the views are of divine delicacy and of the gentleness of the Creator."
__________
On 6 December, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, accompanied by a great number of pilgrims, went to the holy threshold, the tomb of the Báb, on Mt. Carmel.  After praying, he said:  "What a beautiful gathering!  In all the places I went I did not see such a beautiful, live meeting.  Pray, in my behalf, at this blessed spot, for all the friends and ask confirmation for them."
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá was leaving, his honour Ibn-Asdaq,2 one of the famous teachers in Persia, fell on his knees at 'Abdu'l-Bahá's feet.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "According to the blessed command, it is not permitted to fall on the knees and bow down except before the blessed home and the tombs of Bahá'u'lláh and the Báb.  Beware of deviating from the divine commands."
In the evening, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke in Arabic because of the good gathering of Syrian people with the Persian friends.  First, he spoke of the difference between the God-made beauty of the Holy Land and the man-made or artificial development in the occident, saying that the spirituality and beauty of the Holy Land cannot be found in any of the European countries.  Then he illustrated the length of his journey by the following story:  "A certain Kurd was awakened in the morning to say his prayers.  He arose and prayed five times successively.  (The Muslim morning prayer consists of facing Mecca, reading a passage from the Qur'án, and bowing and kneeling twice in supplication.)  The people said to him, 'What art thou doing?  The morning prayer should be uttered only twice and thou art repeating it five times.'  He replied, 'God bless you.  I do not say my prayers often.  When I do say them, why should I say them only twice?  The more the better!'  So it was with us.  We had not travelled before,
page 18
so when we started, we went on a long journey.  Every day, we were in a town or a city.  Indeed, the American cities are very large.  I spoke of the validity of his holiness, Christ, and of the accepted Messenger (Muhammad) in most of the Christian churches and in the synagogues of the Jews.  When I arrived there, I found that the proofs of the validity of the divine Manifestations had not been given, nor the spiritual questions explained in those churches and public gatherings.  Therefore, I arose to explain and give proofs.  My addresses comprise more than two volumes."
__________
On 9 December, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to 'Akká.  The train was filled with the friends, who were chanting poems with infinite joy, until they arrived in the Holy City.  After dinner 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the holy tomb and prayed for all the believers.  The inhabitants of 'Akká, who had been bitter enemies for more than two-score years received him with utmost joy, respect and humbleness.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "I did not like to have such a big gathering on my arrival in 'Akká.  I intended to go quietly to visit the tomb of Bahá'u'lláh and to stay for a few days.  Now I have to return sooner to Haifa."  And with the same joy and fragrance, they returned to Haifa.
As to the health and happiness of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, he said many times:  "My health and happiness are in this, when I see the friends of God engaged in spreading the divine fragrances, arising to serve the Cause of God, forgetting every thought save that of teaching, casting into the corner of forgetfulness every matter but that of unity and harmony.  Consider in every age what confirmation and assistance were received by those souls who devoted their time to serving the Cause and spreading the divine fragrances.  On the contrary, those who were absorbed by personal interests or political affairs degraded not only themselves but their associates.  Thus, in this day, the friends of God should see that all glory lies in teaching the Cause of God and that every happiness is found in the shadow of the Word of God."
__________
A talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, on 17 December, in 'Akká:  "How very unjust the people are!  From the day of the appearance of his holiness, Christ, until now he has not been mentioned in the synagogues of the Jews.  Now, the Bahá'ís are proving in the Jewish synagogues that Christ is the Word of God and that Christ is the Spirit of God.  In the Christian churches, the Bahá'ís are proving that his holiness, Muhammad, the Messenger was a prophet of God.  Notwithstanding this, the people are not pleased with us.  Once, when I was on my way to speak in a church in New York city, a person from India, a man prominent in that city, met us accidentally.  He was surprised and said to himself, 'I will go and see what all this is about.'  He came to the church and saw me standing on the platform, proving the prophethood of his holiness the Messenger of God.  Indeed, he became amazed.  When we came out, his face was radiant beyond description.  He said, 'In the name of God!  What does this mean, that a person proves the prophethood of his holiness, Muhammad, in the presence of the Christian ministers!'  He became much attracted to the Cause.  In reality, the church was full of people.  Afterwards, the minister, too, showed his appreciation, thankfulness and joy.
"Although we were in the utmost weakness and feebleness during this journey, yet the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty were like unto the surging sea.  Wherever we went, just before beginning to speak, I saw the doors opening and the lights of the Sun of Reality confirming, beyond the power of description.  Everywhere we went, in churches, synagogues and meetings, I turned first to the Kingdom of Abhá,
page 19
seeking, for a few minutes, the confirmations.  Then, knowing that the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty were hovering over that assembly, I would begin to speak."
__________
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his home, 20 December:
"Today I came down here.  It was a pleasant walk.  Praise be to God, that, through the favour and bounty of the Blessed Beauty, I reached the holy threshold.  I had no other desire but to reach here.  Many nights I thought of this wish.  I saw that I did not want any thing but this and for me there can never be a better climate than we have here.  I travelled in many countries.  I went to the world's most famous climates, such as Dublin, New Hampshire, the summer resort of Washington's government officials and statesmen.  It is a place of high altitude with many forest trees; its climate is of the utmost delicacy.  Also, we went to Denver, Colorado.  Its climate is very good; it is a beautiful city.  Again, we were in Switzerland, which is far famed, and in the summer people from all regions go there.  Yet there is no climate like that of Haifa.  The climate of 'Akká is better than that of Haifa, but these forts and arsenals are connected together and are very damp.  If these are removed, its climate will become excellent.
"When we first came here we were put into the barracks.  In ten or fifteen days we began to fall like leaves because of sickness.  No one remained upon his feet except myself and the late Áqá Ridá.  I used to cook a kettle of soup for them to eat in the daytime and a kettle of rice for the night.  I saw Hájí 'Alí-'Asghar with his eyes closed, crying, 'Nih nih Ján, nih nih Ján' (Grandma dear, grandma dear).  I passed by him; he opened his eyes and became very much ashamed.  His wife, Husayn-Áqá's mother, had fever and was saying, 'What is the matter with me?'  On the other side, Husayn Áqá (Zynat Khánum's father) was crying, 'Oh, my heart is inflamed.'  Briefly, all were ill in bed.  There was no one to give them water.  This was the condition of 'Akká's climate.  Our guards were ten in number.  I saw nine of them in bed.  The wells of 'Akká were as bitter as poison.  Now they are sweet.  During the twenty-five years that the Blessed Beauty lived in 'Akká there was no illness.  Four times there were epidemics of cholera all about 'Akká, even coming very near, but they did not get in.  Four persons who left 'Akká fell victims at its outer gates.  When the news came that the plague had reached Haifa the Christian gentlemen of 'Akká fled away.  They went out to the villages.  The plague went there, too, and they returned to 'Akká.  The famous Austrian doctor was asked, 'What happened that the plague did not reach 'Akká?'  At first, he did not reply; afterwards he said, that the forts and arsenals protected it.  Thus no sickness occurred in 'Akká until the departure of Bahá'u'lláh.  Then all places except 'Akká became free from the plague.  All the Christians in 'Akká said, 'The talisman of 'Akká is shattered.'
"The signs of power and greatness from the appearance of all the holy Manifestations of God-May my soul be a sacrifice to them!-were evident only to the believers.  For example, in the days of his holiness, Moses, he was praised by those souls who were believers.  In the days of the Spirit (Christ) the cause was evident to eleven persons.  Likewise, in the days of his holiness the Messenger, the greatness of the cause was evident to the believers.  But in this Blessed Manifestation everybody wrote incomparable poems during the (days after Bahá'u'lláh's) departure.  A certain Christian said:  'Though I am not a believer in Bahá'u'lláh, yet I find his miracles like unto the sun.'
"In Baghdád, all the learned, sages, great and high personages, among them
page 23
Siyyid Dawúdí and 'Abdu'r-Rahmán Effendi Álúsí, were in the utmost humbleness."
__________
On 22 December, a great number of pilgrims from all parts of the world gathered in Haifa.  The large home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was too small for them all, so two meetings were held on the same night.  To the first gathering 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke as follows:  "You are welcome, most welcome!  We have divided the friends into two groups, but the place is still too small-O my God, increase their number and bless them!
"When I was in Europe and America I saw that some people were saying, 'How can this Cause grow as these grey bearded Persians imagine it will?  The present world has changed and the time when religion had influence has now passed away.'  I knew that they were saying these things to themselves and so at the end of the conversation I explained that when Christ was crucified he had twelve disciples.  One of them denied him three times and another sold him for a little money; notwithstanding this, consider now how important was his cause.  But at the time of the departure of the Blessed Beauty there were at least a hundred-thousand souls who would sacrifice their lives for him.  These same thoughts that you have now were also prevalent in Christ's time and so little did they care for him that it is not even known where he was buried.  And three hundred years later, when St. Helen went to the Holy Land, some people, thinking of their own personal benefit, went to her and said, 'We dug the ground here and found the cross on which they crucified his holiness, Christ.'  This was the foundation of the tomb of Christ.  It is not even known where the tombs of Mary and the disciples are.  The Catholics say that the tombs of Paul and Peter are in Rome.  Others say that they are in Antioch.  They were so unimportant that one of the philosophers of that time who wrote a book against Christ, said, 'This person Christ, never existed and there never was such a man.  This is what Paul and Peter have made up.  A criminal person was crucified in Jerusalem.  These two came and made him the Christ, for their own interests.'  Praise be to God!  in the days of the Blessed Beauty, his Cause became famous in all regions and all of his signs and friends are known and manifest.
"The Persians used to ask, 'What is going to happen to Persia?' I said:  'The conditions existing now, are the causes of destruction.  These dissensions, these parties, one democratic, another constitutional, are destroying Persia day by day.  Compare the present conditions of Persia with those ten years ago.  These dissensions have destroyed Persia and day by day, it is becoming worse.'  They asked, 'What will be the future?'  I answered, 'I will give you an example which illustrates the future of Persia.  It is sufficient and complete and you should take it as a standard:  Mecca is a piece of stony land, a non-cultivated valley, where even grass never grows.  It is a dry, intensely hot desert and is not fitted to be inhabited.  What would thrive in a rocky, arid land?  But because it was the native land of his holiness the Messenger, this rocky and stony land became the centre toward which people in all regions turn their faces and bow in prayer.  From this, you should see the future of Persia.  This is an illustration.  An arid land, because it was the native land of his holiness, the Messenger, became the centre of all the horizons.  But Persia is green and verdant; it has beautiful roses; its climate is gentle and its water is sweet.  From this you should measure what the
page 24
future of Persia will be.  This example is sufficient.'"
__________
"Welcome!  How are you!  No strength is left in me because I have talked so much, from morning until now.  Sometimes it becomes a matter of duty to speak and if man fails to do so he is held responsible by God.  This is one of these days.  Although I was not feeling well, I spoke in detail, because it was a matter of duty to speak.  Through the spreading and circulating of falsehoods in these regions the hearts of certain people have harboured them.  I spoke of what I said in Europe and America and of what was spread in the papers.  I explained to them that it was not as they understood it.  For instance, they believed that we were the enemies of his holiness Muhammad, the Messenger, and yet, many addresses had been given in the Christian churches and in the synagogues of the Jews proving the validity of his holiness the Messenger.  Some of these misunderstandings were removed.  Today, the Muftí (judicial lawyer who rules according to the laws in the Muslim religion) said to me, 'These talks which have appeared in the papers have indeed removed many superstitions.'  What an injustice!
"Philosopher Vambery, who was in Budapest, Austria, had never believed in any of the religions.  For years and years he travelled in Constantinople, Afghanistan, Turkistán and Persia and learned the languages of these countries very well.  He said to me:  'Because of this, I am amazed and surprised, that I, Vambery have not the courage to and cannot mention the name of Christ with reverence in the churches of the Jews.  But you have proved with such courage and power, in the synagogues of the Jews, that Jesus Christ was the Word and the Spirit of God.'
"In America certain people gave warnings that, 'This person is the enemy of Christ', and upon our arrival there, they printed in the papers that 'The enemy of Christ has arrived'.  Even when I was in Washington a bundle of pamphlets was thrown into my carriage as I was leaving a church in which I had just spoken to a very large gathering of people.  The pamphlet contained several pages.  They wrote that, 'These Bahá'ís are the enemies of Christ and they are destroying his edifice.  Is it permissible that we leave Christ, who has given his life for us for this person?'  But no one listened to them and all showed their joy and appreciation. ...
"The Jews in America, did not oppose us.  They held very good meetings and invited me.  I went and spoke to them and they became very happy and manifested infinite joy.  In San Francisco, they all expressed their pleasure and happiness. ...  After these talks the Rabbi said, 'We used to believe that the orient was extinguished, but now it is evident that the East is East.  These talks which we have just heard are like those of the prophets and our glorious ancestors in the past.'  They were so touched and affected by the talks given in the synagogues that a letter came, saying that the Rabbi went to a minister and said to him, 'Your church is being remodelled and it will be a long time before you can use it again.  Come to our synagogue and pray and supplicate in the way you desire.  Saturday is our special day of worship and Sunday will be yours'."


IX:3, 28 April 1918
page 25
Talks by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Holy Land (continued)
The following compilation of some of the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá after his return to the Holy Land from America, Europe and Egypt.
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
[Previous section is in Star of the West, XI:2, pp. 17-19, 23-24.]
The death of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl
Today very sad news has been received.  He was indeed a very glorious personage.  In every way he was unequalled.  It is impossible for a person to be perfect in all things.  His honour Áqá Mírzá Haydar 'Alí must write his life history.
In reality, he was in the utmost severance, in the utmost firmness and steadfastness in the Cause of God.  He was detached from all things.  From the day this person became a believer until this day, he was engaged in service in the Cause of God.  He was engaged either in giving the Message or in writing.  He was never attached to this world.
How learned he was and studious of books!  He was familiar with every nation.  With the precepts of all religions he was acquainted.  He was my partner and participant in the servitude of the holy threshold.
During the days of sorrow, he was my consolation.  I had perfect confidence in him.  Every written criticism of the Cause I used to refer to him and he wrote the answer.
How humble and meek he was!  No matter how much we insisted that this person take a servant for himself, he refused, that he might serve the friends and give them tea.  All friends and strangers, when they went to his home, he used to serve.  Although his body was weak, sick, feeble and feverish, he used to stand and make tea.  All his thoughts were directed to making his visitors pleased and happy at any rate.
During all this time I did not hear from him the word-"I; I said or I wrote."  He used to say, "I submitted to them; I submitted to the friends."  Never a word was uttered by him, saying, "I have knowledge", or "I have experience".  He was indeed effaced and selfless.  He was self-sacrificing at the holy threshold.  The odour of existence could not be inhaled from him.1
A great wisdom necessitated his passing.  There is nothing to do but to exercise patience.  How many a man equals a thousand men!
All the friends of God should gather together and pray at the holy tomb of the Báb and I will pray here.
Talk upon Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in his home, at Haifa, 21 January 1914.
page 26
The calamity of his honour, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl is indeed great.  No matter how much we want to console ourselves, we cannot be consoled.  How good for man to be like this, so that the hearts of all the friends are attracted to him in every way.  While in Alexandria, every time my heart was depressed, I used to go and meet him and at once my depression vanished.  He was very truthful.  He never harboured deceit and revenge.
He left wonderful writings in proving the blessed Cause.  His thought, reference, pen and tongue all were used in proving the blessed Cause.  His custom was to occupy his time from morning to noon in writing.  He did not receive anyone.  In the afternoon, he received everybody who went to him.
He used to have difficulties with the American and European women because of their numerous questions and persistence.  Some of these ladies said, "We went there and knocked at his door.  We heard no answer.  We persisted in knocking, knowing that he was in.  We knocked and we knocked.  And finally, he said in English, Abu'l-Fadl not here.'"  The ladies said, "We were convulsed with laughter.  He himself, from the inside, laughed too.  And then we departed."
Light flooded his face.  How illumined he was!  His heart was shining, radiant.  The divine wisdom is wonderful.  Man becomes amazed.  Although such souls themselves are like unto a remedy for others, death is their utmost desire.  It is the highest degree of existence and for him was life supreme.  No greater bounty is there for man than to depart from the world of existence.
Those who associated with him and loved him have become sad.  He was a sincere soul.  There was nothing about him but sincerity.  Never had he any superfluities about him.  He was all sincerity.  For example, if he loved a person, he used to love him more in his heart.  If he attributed anything to a man, he used to attribute it more in his heart.  And if he was in harmony with a man, he was more in harmony in his heart.  He was sincere, not insincere.  If he was angry at a man, he could not speak to him.  He used to tremble at the sight of him.
Astonishing it is that one of the Páshás of Egypt longed to meet him, but Abu'l-Fadl refused him.  After that, a mediator went to him and asked, "Why don't you meet the Páshá?"  He replied, "I don't like him.  His desire must be insincere, because if his desires were sincere, God would have created love in my heart for him.  At any rate, I am unable to meet him with love and truthfulness.  It is better that I do not see him."
He was not entangled with this world.  He was not entangled with anything.  His heart was not attached to life, nor anything else.  He was entirely severed, refined, spiritual and of the Kingdom.
The Shaykh of Islám, of Caucasia, wrote against the Cause.  Some of the friends answered him.  Shaykh of Islám wrote a second time a criticism.  After that, Áqá Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl wrote a full, convincing answer.  It surprised the Shaykh.
It was amusing and the joke is here, that the Azalís wanted Abu'l-Fadl's book very much.  Finally, one of the friends asked, "Well, you are Bábís; what is in this book that you want so much?"  They replied, "For its good arguments in behalf of his highness, the Supreme (the Báb).  And for these arguments, we want the book."
Talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in his home, Haifa, 22 January 1914.
page 27
Miscellaneous topics
Meetings are held, in the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, twice a week.  One evening, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke about the beauty and spirituality of Mt. Carmel.  He spoke, also, of Elijah and of his arising to vivify the religion of Moses.  Elijah cast out the statue of Baal (an idol) and reformed the Jews from harmful customs.  When he had lead them to perfect spirituality and might, so that he had confidence in them he left them, instantly left them; because he saw that his work was finished.  Man must be like this.  At the time of difficulties and when his services are needed, he must answer the call of the hour and then, when his work is accomplished, he must hold aloof from leadership and power.  This is the meaning of "the man of God" or "God's hero" and "service to God".  After reading and chanting communes, the name of a Zoroastrian, who visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá in London and who became very attracted, was mentioned.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "As long as the love of God exists in a heart, there is progress, day by day, and vice-versa."
__________
On 9 February 1914, a young English traveller went to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Haifa.  He was interested in the economic problem and asked the following question:  "When the time comes for the working people to become the partners of their employers, will they have their own representatives to consult with the company and will those who invest more capital receive more shares?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "Certainly, when the working people become partners with the company, they will select their own representatives for consultation and those who have more capital will earn more money."
In the evening, 'Abdu'l-Bahá called one of the pilgrims, known as Mírzá Mahmúd Furúghí, to him.  (The translator knows this man personally.  He is indeed one of God's heroes.  One of his great works was this:  When the first storm of tests blew in 'Akká and the fire of violation appeared, the eyes of most of the believers were closed to the truth; but his honour Mírzá Mahmúd Furúghí sounded the trumpet of firmness and their eyes became opened.)  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to Mírzá Mahmúd Furúghí about the victory of the divine sovereignty over the material, saying that spiritual matters are promulgated by the inward and ideal power and not by outward conditions and circumstances.
At that moment, a group of Jewish Bahá'ís, from Hamadán, Persia, came and 'Abdu'l-Bahá answered all of their questions.  The following is one of the answers:  "The utterance of the Blessed Beauty that the descendants of Israel shall become dear, was made at a time when the people of Israel were still in the utmost degradation and before they had returned.  He uttered these things in order that the glance of providence would surround them, so that they might progress, deliver themselves from humiliation and return to this Holy Land.  That is why, day by day, they became dear and returned to the Holy Land.  These things are all through the power of the blessed Word.  They had been degraded for 1,600 years, but, after this blessed word was uttered, they became dear and progressed, although they had no soldiers, army nor government and although the other governments remained the same as before.  But this blessed utterance is in behalf of the believers among the Jews, that is, those who became believers.  When the believers of the Jews progressed and became dear, the non-believers progressed with them, like those, who go and eat at a feast, to which they are not invited.  However, this progression is only as long as they are agreeable and friendly.
Should they exercise enmity, they will
page 28
not progress.  Nay rather, they will destroy their own homes."
__________
On 11 February, Hájí Músá, a Jewish Bahá'í, arrived from Ádhirbáyján, Persia.  He went with the pilgrims to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who talked to them as follows:  "Readiness is necessary in order to be a recipient of divine bounty.  Souls who are prepared are like candles, coming in contact with fire.  They become illumined.  They are swayed by the wafting of a breeze.  They become green and verdant from a drop of the sprinkling of the cloud of favour.  They find merciful susceptibilities by hearing a word.  But no fruits nor results can be obtained from the souls who are not ready.  Thus the prepared souls, on hearing the divine call, respond, 'Here we are!'  They turn to the Kingdom of Abhá, investigate the realities of divine questions and arise to spread the fragrances of God.  How many souls in the world have longed all of their lives to live in the days of one of the near servants of God and to reach the favour of being in the presence of one of the accepted servants in the threshold of the Truth, and yet it was impossible for them!  Praise be to God, you have responded with 'Aye!' to the call of God, in the days of the Blessed Beauty.  You are in the age of light and in the century of mysteries.  God willing, you may be confirmed in services to the holy threshold and firm in the Covenant and Testament of God."
__________
On 12 February some of the friends went to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá and heard him say the following:  "We must execute the divine ordinances.  The Blessed Beauty says, 'If you have a word or a truth, which others are deprived of, present it with utmost compassion.  If it is accepted, the aim is attained.  If otherwise, you should not interfere.  Leave him to himself, while advancing to God, the Mighty, the Self-subsisting.'  The duty of the friends, is this:  To be kind to all nationalities and parties; to be all love; to be well-wishers and to associate with everyone, in the utmost unity. ...  They must always read the holy books, so that they may be familiar with their contents. ...  Do not write anything for the Star of the West that might become the cause of repelling the souls.  Nay, rather, write things that may become the cause of joy, advancement and hopefulness to the souls."
In the afternoon, some of the German and British leaders went to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá and he talked to them about the Holy Land and Mount Carmel.  He said "The climate of Mount Carmel is peerless.  Its sun is always shining, its moon, brilliant, its stars are gleaming and its lights are radiant.  This Holy Land is the high land, wherein the prophets of God became manifest.  Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Joseph, Moses, Aaron, Isaiah and the rest, were in the Holy Land.  You must know the value of this land and love it.  If a person travels in all of this Holy Land he will find all kinds of trees, those that grow in tropical as well as those of the temperate climates, such as pomegranate, dates, cypresses, walnut, etc.  You must love this Holy Land very much.  The Sun of Reality shone forth upon it and it is the dawning-point of the Manifestations of the Light of Divinity."  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá praised the climate and the inhabitants of Stuttgart, Germany, and spoke about the superstitions and imitations of the leaders of religion.  He said:  "They are promulgating matters which are not in accord with the divine books and which are contrary to sound minds.  His holiness Christ says, 'Sheath thou the sword', but they make the Krupp cannons.  If you compare the deeds of the present nations with the behests of the holy books and with the deeds of the divine Manifestations, you will find that there is no relation whatever between them."
In the evening, the general meeting
page 29
for the friends and pilgrims was held in the blessed home.  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered the question of one, who stood at his service, saying:  "This cycle is the cycle of favour and not of justice.  Therefore, those whose deeds are clean and pure, even though they are not believers, will not be deprived of the divine mercy; but perfection is in faith and deeds.  Undoubtedly, a person, who is not a believer, but whose deeds and morals are good, is far better than one who claims his belief in words but, who, in actions, is a follower of Satan.  The Blessed Beauty says, 'My humiliation is not in my imprisonment, which, by my life, is an exaltation to me; nay rather, it is in the deeds of my friends, who attribute themselves to us and commit that which causes my heart and pen to weep!'"
__________
In the afternoon of 13 February, the American pilgrims held a special memorial meeting, for the departure of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl at the holy threshold of the Báb, on Mount Carmel.  'Abdu'l-Bahá attended the meeting and spent that night at the home of 'Abbás Qulí, near the blessed tomb.  In the morning of 14 February, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the hospice (the home of the pilgrims) close to the tomb of the Báb and sat in the parlour, facing the tomb of Bahá'u'lláh.  He said:  "The view from this hospice is very beautiful, especially because it faces the tomb of the Blessed Beauty and 'Akká.  In the future it will all be built up between 'Akká and Haifa.  'Akká and Haifa will be joined together and will take the first place in the world.  Now, as I glance into the future, I see the greatest port in the world here.  This semi-circular bay will be a large harbour for ships, so that the entering boats may be protected from the waves and winds of the storm.  This harbour will be filled with ships of the nations.  All of these regions will be decorated by buildings and lofty palaces.  Many gardens and flower beds will be made.  There will be electric lights and from here to 'Akká will be flooded with them.  It will be a wonderful sight, especially at night, for those who come from the sea or who look from the summit of the mountains.  From all of these regions, the cry of 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!' (O Thou Glorious of the Most Glorious!) shall rise.  All the souls will come in a state of supplication, imploring and chanting the communes.  In every town, the melodies from the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár on this Mount Carmel, will be most pleasing to the ears.
"It is wonderful!  Consider where this Cause was at first and where it is now!  And where is Shíráz, Tihrán, Baghdád, Roumelia, Constantinople and 'Akká!  These events took place only for the fulfilment of the prophecies of the prophets.  God's ways are wonderful.  For 2,000 years, he has made the Cause travel here and there, until it reached the spot in which it would fulfil all the prophecies.  God will, unquestionably, declare openly the Prince of Peace, of whom he spoke, through the prophets, and he will not erase a single letter."
__________
In the morning of 15 February, a large number of American ladies, who were going to Jerusalem, visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Afterwards, the Governor of Damascus, the Judge of Haifa and a number of statesmen went to see him, in his home.  He spoke to them in detail about historical matters, scientific facts, the life histories of some of the doctors and sages of the past and of the requirements for this great century, the oneness of the world of humanity and universal peace.
In the afternoon, the president of Beirut College (Syrian Protestant College), the head of the hospital, and a large number of students, came to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá and he spoke as follows:
"The schools should be free from all religious and racial prejudices, for these often prevent good results from being
page 30
obtained.  All schools and colleges should have these three foundations:
First-They should be sincere in the service of training the souls.  They should discover the mysteries of nature and extend the circle of art, commerce, etc., so that ignorance and the lack of knowledge will pass away and the lights of science and knowledge shine forth from the horizon of the soul and heart.  In all schools and universities, a general rule for training should be made.
Second-Training in morality is necessary, so that the pupils' good conduct may remain unchanged and so that they may progress in a most befitting manner, become possessed of lofty ideas, lovers of the world of humanity and so that they will hold fast to the spiritual perfections and to that which does not displease God.
Third-Service to the world of humanity should be obligatory.  Every student should know, with perfect certainty, that he is the brother of the people of all religions and nations and that he should be without religious, racial, national, patriotic or political bias, so that he may find the thoughts of universal peace and the love of humankind firmly established in his heart.  He should know himself as a servant of human society of all the countries in the world.  He should see God as the heavenly father and all the servants, as his children, counting all of the nations, parties and sects as one family.  The mothers in the homes, the teachers in the schools, the professors in the universities, and the leaders in the lofty gatherings, must cause these thoughts to be penetrative and effective, as the spirit, circulating in the veins and nerves of the children and pupils, so that the world of humanity may be delivered from the calamities of fanaticism, war, battle, hate and obstinacy, and so that the nether world may become the paradise of heaven."
In the evening, a group of Persian pilgrims came from Merv,1 Russia, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following advices:  "Never let the friends be separated from other people and nations.  They must strive for unity and harmony, through good deeds and morals.  They must be kind to all, tolerant with all and good in conduct.  Day by day, may they become nearer to the threshold of the Blessed Beauty.  May they engage in elevating the Word of God and arise in spreading the Cause of God.  Day by day, may they become more attracted and more holy.  Night and day, I supplicate and beseech the threshold of the Blessed Beauty, seeking confirmations and assistance for the friends of God.  I have the greatest attachment for the friends of the Blessed Beauty and I never forget them."
__________
On the morning of 16 February, the friends from Merv, Russia, left for their country and a party of nine, men and women, from Yazd, Nayríz (Persia) and Bombay (India), arrived in the Holy Land.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was exceedingly glad to see them and showered his blessings upon them, saying:  "In the beginning of the Cause, the friends in Nayríz and Serostan were surging in activity.  The friends there are either of the old believers or of the children of the martyrs.  They have indeed been of great service in the path of God.  They were self-sacrificing and fell victims to severe tests, but all remained firm and steadfast.  Now, also, they are busy, teaching the Cause of God.  Today, confirmation is with those souls who arise to teach.  The gardener is pleased with the flower that is diffusing its fragrance.  The nostrils are perfumed by its sweet smell.  The souls, who are engaged in teaching the Cause, resemble the full-blown flowers.  Sweet fragrances are being diffused from the rose gardens of their hearts."
__________
On 17 February, some of the believers, who had arrived the night before,
page 31
from Khurásán (Persia), came to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá and all bowed and fell at his feet.  'Abdu'l-Bahá prevented them and said:  "No, it is unlawful.  It is unlawful, because, according to the blessed command, kneeling, kissing of the hands and bowing are prohibited.  They are not accepted in the Cause of God.  They belong to the holy tombs of Bahá'u'lláh, and the Báb and to the house of God."  Ustád Muhammad Ridá of 'Ishqábád, asked if any of the great powers would become believers.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "All the people of the world will become believers.  Should you compare the beginning of the Cause with it today, you would see what a quick influence the Word of God has and how the Cause of God has encompassed the horizons.  At the time we left Tihrán (Persia) for Baghdád, there was not a single believer in all the way.  In all the cities there were none.  In Baghdád, there were two or three persons, in a very deplorable condition.  All of the people used to say, 'Now that the Blessed Beauty is gone, this Cause will be erased.'  The elevation of the Word of God, which you see at present, is from the potency of the Cause of God.  Is it possible to compare the present condition with that previous one?  How many of the believers did they kill, tie up, and confiscate and rob their homes!  Notwithstanding this, the Cause has reached its present degree because it is confirmed.  The hosts of the Supreme Concourse assist it and the powers of the Kingdom of Abhá confirm it.  Unquestionably, all will come under the shadow of the Cause of God.  Right there, in Ishqábád, had they ever before heard the name of the Cause?  Now, praise be to God! the banner of the Cause of God is raised high.  All the powers and nations are convinced that the aim of this community (the Bahá'ís) is the harmony and unity of the world.  They never join in corruption.  They want to become the cause of the life of the world and the means of safety; awakening the souls and the cause of the spirituality of the creatures; life-givers and not life-takers.  In the beginning of the Cause, the Bábís (Azalís) brought affairs to such a state that safety was utterly lost and they put the lives and property of all at stake.  What a dilemma it was!  What implications, vice and immorality took place!  All of the people became assured that the Bábís (Azalís) were the enemies of the lives, property and the honour of humanity and that they were blood-thirsty, immoral and evil-doers.  In Tihrán, during the incident of the Sháh (Násiri'd-Dín Sháh was shot by a boy), I remember hearing an ákhúnd (Muslim priest) crying, 'O people!  If you want to worship God and the prophet, if you want to protect your lives, property and honour, kill these Bábís.  They are the enemies of your possessions and of your honour.  They are against the laws and religion.'  All of these events took place, because Mírzá Yahyá (Azal), Siyyid Muhammad, Mullá Ja'far Naráqí and such men, held disreputable gatherings every night and day.  They were engaged in immorality and vice.  This is why, in the history of the people, those calumnies were attributed to the origin of the Cause.  They wrote that the Bábís allowed each woman to have nine husbands.  Therefore the Blessed Beauty arose, with a divine power and might.  He removed all of those implications, unfurled the banner of holiness, pitched the tent of universal peace and called the people to faithfulness, good morals and peace.  He said, 'If you are killed in God's service, it is better than for you to kill.  Should you be in need of the very essentials of life, you must not raise your hand against anyone, not even a Jew.  (In those days, the Jews were under great persecutions.)  Be ye kind to all people, loyal to all the governments and deal fairly with all humanity.  Be faithful, truthful, merci-
page 34
ful, compassionate and serve the world of humanity.  Consider the oneness of the world of humanity, because ye are all of one tree and the fruits of one branch.'  Then it became evident to the governments and nations of the world that the Bahá'ís are the essence of sanctity, lovers of peace and of safety, kind to all sects, faithful, truthful, harmless, patient, loyal and fruitful.  Should poison be given to them (the Bahá'ís) they will return honey.  Should they be wounded, they will give in return a healing salve.  If they hear curses and execrations, they send their prayers.  In all of their aims, they only purpose the good of the creatures.  They seek only the good pleasure of the Truth.  They have no hope other than service and universal peace.  Their happiness is only in the oneness of the world of humanity."
Afterwards, 'Abdu'l-Bahá inquired about the health of the pilgrims, who came from Yazd, Persia, and gave the following utterances:  "The friends of Yazd suffered great calamities.  They experienced severe tests, the greatest tests possible.  Notwithstanding the firmness and steadfastness of these friends, the people of violation and of instability, thought that they could promulgate doubt among these upright people.  They believed that they could bring about corruption in the Cause, destroy the oneness and unity of the friends and bring humiliation to the Covenant of God, claiming, 'That the Blessed Beauty has favoured us also.'  They did not see that those favours were only in the relation of the souls to the Cause of God and that, when that relationship became severed and when the command was disobeyed, these favours vanished.  Of what value, in itself, is the black stone (in Mecca)?  But because it was given a
page 35
relation to the Cause of God his holiness Muhammad, himself, bowed down to it.  Why?  Because it was related to God.  It is likewise with the house of God.  But these relationships are figurative and metaphoric.  God is holy above these relationships.  These are all bounties and not from merit.  What relationship remains when they have turned from the good-pleasure of the Blessed Beauty and when they strive to wreck the edifice of God?  Undoubtedly, every relationship becomes severed.  However, I consider myself as a mosquito; nay, even weaker than that; but the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá, are unending.  The bounties of the Blessed Beauty encompass us on all sides.  What art thou to do?  The Blessed Beauty says, 'We see you from my Abhá (the Most Glorious) horizon.  We shall assist those who arise to support my Cause with a host from the Supreme Concourse and a contingent from the near angels.'  This is the field.  Go forth and cry out!  Raise the call!  No one has confined nor prevented you.  What will spending the nights and days in eating, sleeping, murmuring and finding fault result in, but loss?  I do not prevent anyone from serving in the Cause of God.  Nay rather, I always encourage and urge all to serve.  I went myself and heralded the coming of the Kingdom.  You, too, might have gone out, had you desired."
__________
On 18 February, the pilgrims gathered to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá, at his home in Haifa.  In that meeting, news from Baku, Russia, was read, saying that Áqá Músá had held a wonderful memorial feast in the name of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl and that the friends had stopped their work, for three days and nights, because of their sorrow over his departure.  In this meeting, the Persian consul gave a detailed address, telling of the unity and the harmony of the Bahá'ís and of how they differ from the rest of the Persian communities, in that they are the cause of honour to the government and to the nation of Persia.  On that day, explicit commands were revealed to the American and English friends teaching in India, which absolutely forbade them to interfere in political affairs or to speak a word in politics.  They were commanded to occupy their time in spreading the spiritual fragrances and in elevating the Cause of the affectionate Lord.
It was mentioned in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that Mr Andrew Carnegie of America had given $2,000,000 for bringing about unity among the Christian sects.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "His aim is good and a service to the world of humanity.  O how I wish that all of the leaders of the people would spend their energy for unity and peace among all nations and sects!"  At that moment, letters and newspapers arrived from the occident and Persia, bearing the glad-tidings of the harmony and purpose of the believers in teaching the Cause.  'Abdu'l-Bahá became exceedingly happy and prayed for confirmation from the Kingdom of Abhá and for the protection of the believers.  He said:  "They must step with steadfast feet into this field and must think of naught else save the unity of the people and the elevation of the Word of God."
__________
On the next day, 19 February, 'Abdu'l-Bahá told the friends of the days of his childhood.  He said:  "In Tihrán I spoke with a scholarly gentleman and gave him the divine Message.  I talked to him about severance from all else save God, and I told him that the purpose of this life is not to attain high position, wealth and physical happiness; nor are eating, sleeping and enjoying the fellowship of the physical body, the only things to be desired.  The purpose and end of the world of creation is spiritual life, knowledge of God, love of God, fear of disobedience to God and the perfections of the world of humanity.  Should man characterize himself with
page 36
these lofty qualities and virtues, the physical conditions will, undoubtedly, not seem interesting to him and he will detach himself from them.  His heart will become illumined with the light of God; he will hear the call of the unseen joy and will become the centre of the names and attributes of God.  I conversed with him a great deal on these subjects and he became a very good believer.
"On another occasion, in the city of Baghdád, I talked with a learned man, Mullá Hasan, some of whose relatives were believers.  No matter how hard they tried to give him the Message, he would not accept it.  Once, they brought him to my house when I was just getting up from my sleep and combing my hair.  They said, 'We have brought so-and-so here and we beg you to come and speak with him; perhaps, he will become a believer.'  I said, 'Very well,' and then I turned to the Blessed Beauty and prayed:  'O Blessed Beauty, confirm me!'  Afterwards, I talked to him, and in the same hour he became a believer.  He became exceedingly good and was so enkindled that, although he was of high rank, he used to go into the kitchen and cook things with his own hand to entertain the friends."
That day news came of the spreading of the Cause and of the entrance into the Kingdom of some of the ministers in America.  It made him very happy and he sent a number of tablets to America, saying:  "My happiness is in these glad-tidings and victories.  Praise be to God! the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá are assisting.  Although weary, weak and helpless, we are being assisted and supported by the bounties and confirmations of the Blessed Beauty.  Who and what are we?  These are the rays from the Sun of the Beauty of Abhá and the light of the Supreme Horizon.  How beautifully the poet says, 'The mosquito, to which thou givest power to fly, becomes a falcon.'  Under the shadow of the Blessed Beauty, the atom becomes the sun; the ant becomes a Solomon; the unpopular become popular, and the degraded find eternal glory."
In the afternoon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was very tired from speaking and writing, and so he went to his private place in his garden to rest a little.  On the way, he jokingly told a story of a man whose wife had caused him such trouble and had kept him so busy that, when he was told to divorce her so as to get relief, he answered, "She does not give me a chance to find time to give her a divorce."
__________
In the morning of 20 February 'Abdu'l-Bahá took a stroll in his garden and remarked on the beautiful weather, on the site and on the spirituality of Haifa and of Mount Carmel.  Then, looking at the violets, carnations and other flowers, he said:  "As long as a thing is rare and scarce, it seems more attractive and has greater value.  In Baghdád there were few violets in our home and they were indescribably dear and attractive to our sight.  But here none look at these violets and they are lost among so many flowers.  As the quantity of a thing increases, its value decreases.  And so it is in the beginning of the days of the Holy Manifestations; because the souls are so few, they are counted as the essences of existence in the estimation of God.  They are always mentioned and considered in the holy threshold and the sacred court and they attain to everlasting life and eternal bounty because they are detached from all conditions and have lost themselves entirely in the good pleasure of God."  After a while, 'Abdu'l-Bahá quoted the following verse:  "We are from thee and we wish for naught else save thee.  Give thou the sweets to those who have not tasted the ecstasy of love."
In the afternoon, some of the people took their children to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He received them with utmost kindness and generosity and even took off his own embroidered Persian shawl and with his blessed hands put it on the head of a little girl.  In the evening he talked
page 37
about the education of girls, saying:  "In the past, they used to prevent girls from learning to read and write.  In fact, these things were considered so sinful that should a woman know how to read or write she would not be desirable for marriage.  But afterwards, through the influence of the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, the friends of God devoted most of their time to training their children.  Now, they have established schools in Persia for teaching girls."
__________
On the morning of 21 February, a number of Bahá'ís, from Bushrúyih and Khurásán, Persia, and from Ishqábád, Russia, arrived in Haifa.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke, in detail, about the steadfastness, sincerity and love of the believers, in those towns and countries.  That afternoon a meeting and banquet were prepared, for all of the friends, at the tomb of the Báb.  The men occupied one side of the holy threshold, the women the other.  At the close of the meeting, 'Abdu'l-Bahá told the friends to enter, one by one, inside the holy threshold and, last of all, he came and chanted with his wonderful, melodious voice, the Tablet of Visitation.  He and the friends supplicated and prayed for all of God's children and besought confirmations and heavenly bounty for them.  When the prayers were over, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave permission for a photograph to be taken of himself sitting in front of the friends [See Star of the West, V:1, p. 2.], who were standing in a group.  But, after consenting to this, he refused to remain seated, saying, "I prefer to stand as one of the friends and as one of the beloved of the Blessed Beauty."  After the picture was taken, all were served with tea, fruit and sweetmeats.
__________
On 22 February, a group of tourists from England visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He spoke to them about the teachings and of the history of the Cause and they left with their hearts exceedingly touched and attracted.  Afterwards, while he was answering some important letters from the occident, a professor from Beirut College came to see him.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to him about the importance of preventing all prejudices and superstitions and of bringing about unity and harmony among the different religions and sects.  He said:  "Everyone must do away with false prejudices and must even go to the other churches and mosques, for, in all of these worshipping places, the name of God is mentioned.  Since all gather to worship God, what difference does it make?  None of these worship Satan.  The Muslims must go to the churches of the Christians and of the Jews and vice-versa, the others must go to the Muslim mosques.  They hold aloof from one another merely because of unfounded prejudices and dogmas.  In America, I went to the Jewish synagogues, which are similar to the Christian churches, and I saw them worshipping God everywhere.  In most of these places I spoke to them about the original foundations of the divine religions and I explained to them the proofs of the validity of the divine prophets and of the holy Manifestations.  I encouraged them to do away with blind imitations.  All of the leaders must, likewise, go to the churches of one another and speak of the foundation and of the fundamental principles of the divine religions.  In the utmost unity and harmony, they must worship God, in the worshipping places of one another and they must abandon these false fanaticisms.  Man must be possessed of sincerity and love and must be in a state of peace and safety.  When you mention God to me, I must be pleased with you.  The mention of God is good, no matter by what tongue."  'Abdu'l-Bahá afterwards spoke of the prejudices and superstitions of the Jewish leaders and remarked in detail about the bitter persecutions inflicted by another Christian sect upon
page 38
the Presbyterians in Paris, simply because of false prejudices.
(It is a fact that, in the oriental Christian Schools, all Muslims and followers of other religions, are compelled to attend the Christian chapels and churches.  But the Christians do not go to the mosques or synagogues.  In 1908, when the Turkish Empire was freed from the chains of absolute monarchy and the constitution was established by the Young Turks and the famous Society of Union and Progress, all of the students, who were not Christians, refused to attend any church by force.  The college faculty, who were American Presbyterian missionaries, without making any exceptions, gave the students a choice of attending the church or of being expelled.  The translator at that time, was just finishing his medical training in this university and this controversy was one of the causes for his leaving the orient and completing his studies in a Chicago university.)
(To be continued.)


IX:2, 9 April 1918
page 22
'Abdu'l-Bahá, extract of a Tablet
O friends, know that the believers of God must be the cause of union and love among all mankind, and until they attain to perfect harmony and agreement they will not become the remedy for the healing of this sick world.  From the very beginning of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in Ishqábád, Russia, day by day, everything has been in perfect harmony, until the believers there accomplished their aim, and it was builded easily, for it was builded by love.  Now I hope that in America it will be the same as in Russia, and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár there be erected by the power of the union and love existing among the believers.
Extract from message to the American believers, revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'Akká, Syria, January 1909; translated by his daughter, Munavvar Khánum.


IX:3, 28 April 1918
page 32
"And some of His signs"
Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá on the "signs" of Bahá'u'lláh.
HE IS GOD!
Praise be unto the One who created the world and made every existing thing wonderful!
He gave the sincere praise-worthy stations and made the invisible visible, but all others are groping in their deep sleep.
He laid the foundation in the erection of the lofty palace and the glorious light; created the new creatures in a manifest resurrection!-and still the people are heedless in their slumber.
He blew the horn; the (first) trumpet sounded; the drum was beaten; those in the world of existence were stunned!-and still the dead are dormant in the graves of their bodies.
Then the second trumpet sounded; it brought the breath of life to some of the dead; even the nursing mothers forgot their infants!-and still the people in their unconsciousness do not comprehend.
The day of judgement has come; the hour has struck; the path is extended; the balance (scale of justice) is set up; all the contingent beings are gathered (for judgement)!-and still the people are afflicted with blindness!
The light has shone forth; the Mount of Tur1 became illumined; the soft breeze of the rose-gardens of the forgiving Lord blew gently; the fragrances of the Spirit were diffused; the dead were resurrected from the graves!-and still the heedless are asleep in their tombs.
The fires are blazing; heaven is nigh; the meadows are blooming; paradise
page 33
has become a wonder!-and still the ignorant are wading in the stagnant pools of their imaginations.
The veil is removed; the curtain is lifted; the clouds are torn asunder; the Lord of Lords is manifest!-and still the criminally negligent are at loss.
He (Bahá'u'lláh) sounded forth the second trumpet and created for you the great Resurrection Day and gathered the holy souls in the Supreme Kingdom.  Verily, therein are signs for the possessors of insight.
And some of his signs are the unfoldments of prophecies and glad tidings; the appearance of proofs and references; the expectations of the pure and devout-and they are of those who attain.
And some of his signs are his lights that are shining from the horizon of oneness; his rays that are beaming from the glorious dawning-point, and the declaration of the great glad tidings by his fore-runner (the Báb).  Verily, therein is a clear evidence for those who reason.
And some of his signs are his manifestations and his appearance; his firmness and existence among the witnessing people in all the cities and among the tribes who attacked him from all sides like unto wolves.
And some of his signs are his steadfastness before the great nations and powerful governments, even before a host of enemies who shed blood and strive to wreck the divine edifice in every time and place.  Verily, therein is a thought for those who reflect upon the signs of God.
And some of his signs are the wonders of his explanations; the eloquence of his utterances; the rapidity of revealing his words, verses, addresses, communes, interpretations of the symbols and illustrations of the parables.  By thy life, the Cause is evident and clear to those who see with the eyes of justice!
And some of his signs are the rising of the sun of his knowledge; the ascending of the moon of his arts and the firmness of the perfections of his conditions.  This is acknowledged by the well-informed and the learned of the nations.
And some of his signs are the preservation of his beauty, the protection of his human temple, the shining of his lights despite the attacks of his enemies with lances, swords and darting arrows from thousands of people.  Verily, therein is an admonition to those who are just.
And some of his signs are his patience, calamities, ordeals, and sufferings under chains and fetters, while he was calling:  "Come unto me, come unto me, O people of piety!  Come unto me, come unto me, O party of goodness!  Come unto me, come unto me, O rising points of light!  "Verily, the door of mysteries is open-and still the wicked are wading in their mire.
And some of his signs are the revealing of his Book:  his explicit messages as warnings to the kings; exhortations to the one who encircled the earth with a penetrating power and dominating force, whose great throne was destroyed
page 34
within a few days (this refers to Napoleon III).  This matter is well-known and obvious to the public.
And some of his signs are the sublimity of his greatness; the supremacy of his station; the immensity of his glory and the shining of his beauty in the horizon of the prison ('Akká).  Then the heads bowed, the voices were silenced and the faces were amazed at him.  This is a proof that was not heard of in past centuries.
And some of his signs are the performing of miracles, the appearance of continuous and uninterrupted supernatural powers, like the bounty of his cloud and the acknowledgement by the heedless of the penetration of his light.  By his life! the Cause is affirmed and clear to all who have come from all parties to the presence of the Living, the Self-subsisting.
And some of his signs are the shining of the sun of his century, the rising of the moon of his generation in the heaven of the ages-the supreme summit of the centuries, with exigencies, knowledge and arts that astonished the horizons, amazed the minds and became known and famous.
Verily, this is a complete matter!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, 14 February 1918.


IX:3, 28 April 1918
page 38
The sterling faithfulness of Isfandíyár
Story told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 October 1913.
My grandfather had many coloured maids and servants.  When the Blessed Perfection became the head of the family he liberated all of them, and gave them permission to leave or stay, but if they desired to remain it would, of course, be in a different manner.  However, all of them, revelling in their new-found freedom preferred to leave, except Isfandíyár, who remained in the household and continued to serve us with proverbial faithfulness and chastity.  Then when Bahá'u'lláh became known as a Bábí, and he was teaching many people, the populace rose against him, and with the tacit consent of the government, our house was pillaged and ransacked.  My father was put into prison and we were persecuted on all sides.  For days the rabble in their fanatical fury and rage threw stones into our house, broke the windows and damaged everything.  At that time I was probably six or seven years old.  Everybody had left us, and our family then consisted of my mother, my sister (the Greatest Holy Leaf) and Áqá Músá.  Fearing that the stones thrown into the house might hit one of us, my mother set out and rented a small house in an entirely different quarter of the city, and for fear of recognition she carried us safely to our new, humble quarters by night.
On the other hand, the enemies of my father, who had poisoned the mind of the Sháh by saying that he harboured secret plans against the throne, were convinced that Isfandíyár was the guardian of all the secret plans of Bahá'u'lláh.  Therefore, they imagined that if once they laid their hands on Isfandíyár they would force out of him everything, and then be able to substantiate their vague accusations with these solid facts.  Hence they commissioned one hundred and fifty policemen to find him and bring him before them.  Isfandíyár had a chum with whom he passed most of his time.  At first they tried to get hold of his chum, thus he might divulge the hiding-place of Isfandíyár, but they failed in their purpose.
One midnight we were roused out of our sleep by a loud knocking at the door.  It was opened, and lo, and behold, it was Isfandíyár.  My mother said to him with anxiety:  "How is it that thou art yet in the city?  Dost thou not know that there are one hundred and fifty policemen after thee?  Fly as quickly as thou canst.  If they get hold of thee, thy life will be in danger."  But he smiled and answered:  "No, I will not leave
page 39
Tihrán, even if an hundred or a thousand policemen are after me.  I am not afraid.  I have many debts in the bazaar.  I owe money to many shopkeepers, and before I leave this city I must pay off all the debts.  I do not want the people to say afterward that the Negro servant of Bahá'u'lláh escaped without paying his debts."  Then he left us, and for one month and a half he walked in broad daylight in the streets and bazaars, and finally succeeded in clearing off all his financial obligations.  All this time the policemen were after him, but could not catch him.  Then, one night he appeared again, and said:  "I am now free.  I have actually paid all my debts and will leave the city with a clear conscience."  He went to Mázindarán, and the governor; who was not a Bahá'í, engaged him in his service, made him the chief of his equerry and protected him from the pursuit of his enemies.  Years lapsed, and the governor, being a religious man, desired to make a pilgrimage to the holy city of Karbilá.  Naturally, he took with him Isfandíyár, who by this time had grown so much in his favour that he could not bear to be separated from him.  When they reached the city of Baghdád, Isfandíyár was overjoyed to stand again in the presence of Bahá'u'lláh, because he loved him most intensely.  He requested Bahá'u'lláh to keep him, saying that he would rather leave the governor and serve his old master.  But Bahá'u'lláh said to him:  "You must act in this matter in accord with the wish of the governor.  You owe him a debt of deep gratitude, because at a time when your life was in danger, he gave you a position and stopped the persecution of your enemies.  Now, if he is willing to have you remain with us, we will accept you; otherwise you must continue to serve him with the same zeal and sincerity that you have served us in the past."
Isfandíyár went to the governor and explained his case.  He answered:  "It is impossible.  I cannot find in this wide world another man as honest and faithful as thyself.  Thou must continue to stay with me.  I have grown to love thee and will do everything to add to thy comfort and happiness."  Of course Isfandíyár was heartbroken over this decision, but he had to abide by the decision of the Blessed Perfection.  He in turn consoled him with his blessings showered upon him.  Isfandíyár returned to Mázindarán with the governor and stayed with him until his last day.
Such was the sterling faithfulness of Isfandíyár that whenever I think of him, my eyes grow dim with tears.  He was a king among men, a glorious star in the heaven of humanity.  Although his face was black, his heart was white as the snow.  He was peerless and had no equal.  I cannot sufficiently praise him.  I love him.  He was a glory and a jewel on the crown of the coloured race, for his life was a noble record of proud achievement, and the whole world may learn a lesson from it.


IX:3, 28 April 1918
page 39
"My home is the home of laughter and exultation"
From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 March 1914
While 'Abdu'l-Bahá was dictating tablets this morning, an Arab was announced and after a few minutes another one came in.  'Abdu'l-Bahá instantly saw that these grown-up children of nature were not friendly with each other and as a subtle master of human nature, he started immediately to establish conciliation between them.  Each of them sat there inwardly growling at his enemy.  At first 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to them in such a manner as to make them laugh.  They did not want to laugh, neither did they want to look at each other, but they could not help doing both.  Then with his deep insight into their hearts he said:
"Are not men really children?  The
page 40
life of men is but a few days; then death overtakes them.  Is it not foolish to attach one's heart to the worldly love and hate?  Why should we let envy and hatred separate us?  The strange part of it is that they have no outward existence.  Happiness is the king of our hearts.  Let us not part from it.  If the candle of happiness is ignited in the chamber of our heart, all the foreboding gloom of evil suggestions will be dispelled.  My home is the home of peace.  My home is the home of joy and delight.  My home is the home of laughter and exultation.  Whosoever enters through the portals of this home, must go out with gladsome heart.  This is the home of light; whosoever enters here must become illumined.  This is the home of knowledge:  the one who enters it must receive knowledge.  This is the home of love:  those who come in must learn the lessons of love; thus may they know how to love each other.  Whenever I see people exercise love and good-fellowship among themselves, my heart is exceedingly rejoiced. ...  God willing, you will always love one another.  Praise be to God, that you are brothers in faith.  You are the citizens of one country, the inhabitants of one town.  The members of your families have known one another for years.  Why then this feud?  Why this ill-feeling?  Why this mutual hatred?"
Then he related to them story after story, making them now laugh and now become serious.  Finally when he observed the time had come, he got up from his seat and asked them to kiss one another and be true friends ever afterwards.  "Is it not much better to be friends than enemies?" 'Abdu'l-Bahá asked them.  Then he went into another room and brought candy and two silk handkerchiefs for each one.  "By this token you are plighted together forever."
"We are the slaves of 'Abbás Effendi.  We will do thy holy bidding.  It seems God directed our steps to your home this morning," they said.  They left the house laughing and holding one another's hands.


IX:3, 28 April 1918
page 40
The power of the Holy Spirit
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, June, 1913.
In Tiberias the missionaries have built a modern hospital and pharmacy.  The doctor has been serving there for thirty-two years.  At least every year one thousand Jews enter the hospital and go out healed, but none of them ever becomes a Christian.  The doctor used to tell me:  "I am at my wit's end in thinking out the reason of the success of the Bahá'ís in the propagation of their teaching.  Without any means at hand they succeed in making these Jews Bahá'ís, but with all these hospitals and schools and charities we do not succeed.  How is this?"
I replied:  "Think for one moment of this singular fact.  The Jews who became Christians in apostolic and post-apostolic times were not attracted to the Christian doctrine by hospitals, etc.  On the contrary they were beaten, persecuted and killed.  Notwithstanding these things they accepted Christianity.  Why is this?  Those early teachers possessed the heavenly power and with that power they were able to carry the gospel into distant lands.  Now, in this day the Bahá'ís are teaching people with the same divine power.  They are baptized with the power of the Holy Spirit.  They have forgotten the ego and are soaring toward the Kingdom of sanctity.  The most efficient capital of the Bahá'í teacher is the divine power.  With that alone he may conquer the cities of the hearts."


IX:5, 5 June 1918
page 57
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
[Mentioned and discussed at Tenth Annual Convention of the Bahá'í Temple Unity, 30 April 1918.]
To his honour, Mr Albert Windust, Chicago, Illinois.
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast written that the publication of the book of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl (The Bahá'í Proofs) is commenced.  This is very acceptable, for his books are written with the utmost sincerity.  Likewise, the translation of the Hidden Words that you are just thinking to print another edition, this is also acceptable.
If Khayru'lláh1 claims that one of the communes is written by him, do not be astonished at this.  For there is an ignorant, uneducated man in the United States, nay in Chicago itself, who has written a pamphlet, and after printing it, he is circulating it abroad.  His aim is no other than the promotion of the superstitions of Mírzá Yahyá (Azal).  Amongst other things he alleges that the Kitáb-i-Íqán, (Tablets of) Tajallíyát and Ishráqát are written by Mírzá Yahyá.  Consequently do not be astonished at the claims of others.  There are and there may be found some souls who collect the supplications of the Blessed Perfection and take out of every supplication a phrase or a sentence and then attribute it to themselves.  Such people are like unto the man who gathers out of the Gospel sundry sayings of Christ-that is, he selects from every page a few words, and as a result he composes phrases and sentences, and claims to be the original writer.
Be ye engaged with your own occupations.  Do not trouble yourself with these statements.  Such articles are like unto the mirage; they will vanish.  That which is real will remain firm and established in the world of existence.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 July 1914, home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


IX:7, 24 June 1918
page 78
In memoriam
Charles Ioas
To the honourable Mr C. Ioas,
O thou who hast advanced toward God!
By God, I rejoiced when reading thy letter which declares thy belief in the unity of God and thine acknowledgement of the appearance of the Kingdom of God.  This is a matter whereby thy face shall brighten in the Supreme Concourse, and thy forehead shall sparkle among the people.  Then know the worth of this gift, the lights of which shone forth unto all directions and indicate the attraction of the Concourse of Abhá, the Most Glorious.  Then be firm in this Cause, and thou wilt behold thyself in a lofty station, having all that is in earth under its shadow, because,
page 79
this is verily that gift which is mentioned in the Gospel.  O how good is this bounty in this day, when the commemoration of the true God is published and spread in all directions!
Abhá be upon thee!
'Abdu'l-Bahá in 1900
page 80
Arthur Pillsbury Dodge
Tablet Revealed when learning of his death, at New York City, 12 October 1915.
To Mrs Dodge, and William, Wendell and Paul Dodge-May their lives be happy!
O ye afflicted ones!
A most terrible news reached my ears and that was the death of his honour, Mr Dodge.  Truly, this bereavement is unbearable and the hearts are afflicted with the utmost sorrow and grief that that divine personage hid his face from the world, hastened to the universe of God and left the friends in the remorse and regret of separation.  In reality that honourable soul served the Cause of God and endured many hardships and vicissitudes.  His services are registered in the everlasting book in the Kingdom of God and mentioned by the Supreme Concourse.  They shall never be forgotten.  Ere long they will yield great results and will become the means of happiness to that household and conducive to the honour of its members.  I will never forget him and supplicate for trim graces and bounties from his highness the Almighty.  Be ye not sorrow-stricken nor do ye lament or bemoan; for that drop joined the ocean, that ray returned to the sun, that thirsty one reached the fountain of eternal life and that fish swam in the sea of God's forgiveness.  Although his star set in the horizon of this world yet he dawned with the utmost brilliancy from the horizon of eternity.  You will find him in that divine universe. Consequently he is not counted among the lost ones.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:7, 13 July 1918
page 81
Bahá'í methods of education
A Compilation of the Words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá to assist parents and teachers in the education of children.
Compiled by Pauline A. Hannen.
[Quotations readily available elsewhere were omitted.]
page 83
Utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 83
Concerning education
The prophets also acknowledge this opinion, to wit:  That education hath a great effect upon the human race, but they declare that minds and comprehensions are originally different.  And this matter is self-evident; it cannot be refuted.  We see that certain children of the same age, nativity and race, nay, from the same household, under the tutorship of one teacher, differ in their minds and comprehensions.  One advanceth rapidly, another is slow in catching the rays of culture, still another remaineth in the lowest degree of stupidity.
No matter how much the shell is educated (or polished), it can never become the radiant pearl.  The black stone will not become the world illumining gem.  The colocynth1 and the thorny cactus can never by training and development become the blessed tree.  That is to say, training doth not change the human gem (i.e., human nature or entity), but it produceth a marvellous effect.  By this effective power all that is registered latent of virtues and capacities in the human reality will be revealed.
Cultivation by the farmer maketh of the grain the harvest, and the effort of the gardener maketh of the seed a noble tree.  The gentle teacher promoteth the children of the school to the lofty altitude and the bestowal of the trainer placeth the little child upon the throne of ether.  Therefore, it is demonstrated and proven that minds are different in the original entity or nature, and that education commandeth a decided and great influence.  Were there no educator, all souls would remain savage, and were it not for the teacher, the children would be ignorant creatures.
It is for this reason that, in this New Cycle, education and training are recorded in the Book of God as obligatory and not voluntary.  That is, it is enjoined upon the father and mother, as a duty, to strive with all effort to train the daughter and the son, to nurse them from the breast of knowledge and to rear them in the bosom of sciences and arts.  Should they neglect this matter, they shall, be held responsible and worthy of reproach in the presence of the stern Lord.
This is a sin unpardonable, for they
page 84
have made that poor babe a wanderer in the Sahara of ignorance, unfortunate and tormented; to remain during a lifetime a captive of ignorance and pride, negligent and without discernment.  Verily, if that babe depart from this world at the age of infancy, it is sweeter and better.  In this sense, death is better than life; deprivation than salvation; non-existence lovelier than existence; the grave better than the spacious, regal home; for in the sight of mankind that child is abased and degraded and in the sight of God weak and defective, in gatherings it is ashamed and humiliated and in the arena of examination subdued and defeated by young and old.  What a mistake is this!  What an everlasting humiliation!
Therefore, the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful must train their children with life and heart and teach them in the school of virtue and perfection.  They must not be lax in the matter; they must not be inefficient.  Truly, if a babe did not live at all it were better than to let it grow ignorant, for that innocent babe, in later life, would become afflicted with innumerable defects, responsible to and questioned by God, reproached and rejected by the people.  What a sin this would be and what an omission!
The first duty of the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful is this:  They must strive by all possible means to educate both sexes, male and female; girls like boys; there is no difference whatsoever between them.  The ignorance of both is blameworthy, and negligence in both cases is reprovable.  "Are they who know and they who do not know equal?" (Qur'án)
The command is decisive concerning both.  If it be considered through the eye of reality, the training and culture of daughters is more necessary than that of sons, for these girls will come to the station of motherhood and will mould the lives of the children.  The first trainer of the child is the mother.  The babe, like unto a green and tender branch, will grow according to the way it is trained.  If the training be right, it will grow right, and if crooked, the growth likewise, and unto the end of life it will conduct itself accordingly.
Hence, it is firmly established that an untrained and uneducated daughter, on becoming a mother, will be the prime factor in the deprivation, ignorance, negligence and the lack of training of many children.
page 85
O ye beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful!  Teaching and learning, according to the decisive texts of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh), is a duty.  Whosoever is indifferent therein depriveth himself of the great bounty.
Beware!  Beware! that ye fail not in this matter.  Endeavour with heart, with life, to train your children, especially the daughters.  No excuse is acceptable in this matter.
Thus may eternal glory and everlasting supremacy, like unto the mid-day sun, shine forth in the assemblage of the people of Bahá, and the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá become happy and thankful.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 577-580.
__________
The tie between husband and wife
As to thy question concerning the husband and wife, the tie between them and the children given to them by God:  Know thou, verily, the husband is one who hath sincerely turned unto God, is awakened by the call of the Beauty of Bahá and chanteth the verses of Oneness in the great assemblies; the wife is a being who wisheth to be overflowing with and seeketh after the attributes of God and His names; and the tie between them is none other than the Word of God.  Verily, it [the Word of God] causeth the multitudes to assemble together and the remote ones to be united.  Thus the husband and wife are brought into affinity, are united and harmonized, even as though they were one person.  Through their mutual union, companionship and love great results are produced in the world, both material and spiritual.  The spiritual result is the appearance of divine bounties.  The material result is the children who are born in the cradle of the love of God, who are nurtured by the breast of knowledge of God, who are brought up in the bosom of the gift of God, and who are fostered in the lap of the training of God.  Such children are those of whom it was said by Christ, "Verily, they are the children of the Kingdom!"
Consequently, O thou maid-servant of God, go unto the maid-servants of the Merciful one and tell them from the tongue of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "O maid-servants of the Merciful!  It is incumbent upon you to train the children from their earliest babyhood!  It is incumbent upon you to beautify their morals!  It is incumbent upon you to attend to them under all aspects and circumstances, inas-
page 86
much as God-glorified and exalted is He!-hath ordained mothers to be the primary trainers of children and infants.  This is a great and important affair and a high and exalted position, and it is not allowable to slacken therein at all!
If thou walkest in this right path, thou wouldst become a real mother to the children, both spiritually and materially.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 605-606.
__________
As to thy question:  "If the husband prevents his wife from entering into the Light, or the wife prevents the husband from entering into the Kingdom of God."  In reality neither one of them prevents the other from entering into the Kingdom of God, unless when the husband has a great attachment to the wife, or the wife to the husband.  When either one of the two adores the other instead of God, then each will prevent the other from entering into the Kingdom of God.
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
As to thy question concerning training children:  It is incumbent upon thee to nurture them from the breast of the love of God, to urge them towards spiritual matters, to turn unto God and to acquire good manners, best characteristics and praiseworthy virtues and qualities in the world of humanity, and to study sciences with the utmost diligence; so that they may become spiritual, heavenly and attracted to the fragrances of sanctity from their childhood and be reared in a religious, spiritual and heavenly training.  Verily, I beg of God to confirm them therein.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 87.
__________
I ask God to help thy children to gain knowledge, to attain virtues and morals which are the refinements of the reality of man, and to strengthen thee to remain firm.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 67.
page 88
__________
Regarding the education of those two daughters D_____ and M_____.  If thou givest true Bahá'í education to those two young trees in the garden of Abhá know thou of a certainty that the highest glory, prosperity and success will become ready and prepared for them.  This is the cause of everlasting honour.
Excerpt from a Tablet to Miss J. M., 13 September 1913.


IX:8, 1 August 1918
page 89
Bahá'í methods of education (continued)
Station of those who serve and teach the children.
A woman who is a good Bahá'í, working for the children in the school, came.  She showed her hands to 'Abdu'l-Bahá that he might see how she had scrubbed the floor.  He kept her hands in his and said:  "Hands which have laboured in the cause of education are ever blessed.  I am pleased with your hands.  I love such hands very much because they have worked for the children.  May you become a great educator and guide to humanity.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, London, December 1912.
__________
page 90
Praise be to God, that with your soul and with your heart you are striving to guide the children.  Appreciate the importance of this favour, that you have been assisted to do such a work, for the result of the spreading of the Cause of God is eternal exaltation.  It is as when a man sows a pure seed in pure soil and it grows through the showers from the clouds of mercy of the Educator.  Consider what a blessing will be brought forth.
Tablet to Mrs. F. G., 1914.
__________
page 91
Protection of children
Take away thy dear child from among the heedless ones, for they are fast after him in order that they may lead him astray from the right path.  Keep him some time with thyself and train him as he ought and should be.  Then send him to another school or another place.
Tablet to P. A. H., 27 March 1906.
__________
Be thou kind to the "bantam chickens and their babies" and take good care of them; so that thou mayest learn how to train the living creatures.  Teach and educate the "parrot" in order that she may be instructed with the heavenly words.  Although the parrot may be unconscious of the meaning of the phrases, yet, God willing, thy heart will be inspired with such utterances, (the significance of which will be revealed to thee first and then the words will flow from thy tongue).  Perfect thyself in the art of music so that thou mayest be able to play on the harp most divinely.
Tablet from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 31 July 1914.
__________
Duties of children toward parents
There are also certain sacred duties on children toward parents, which duties are written in the Book of God, as belonging to God.  The (children's) prosperity in this world and the Kingdom depends upon the good pleasure of parents, and without this they will be in manifest loss.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, pp. 262-263.
__________
Father and mother are worthy of esteem and it is necessary (to secure their good pleasure); but this on condition that they may not prevent one from nearness to the Threshold of the Almighty and may not withhold one from walking in the path of the Kingdom.  Nay, rather they (parents) should encourage and inspire one (to walk in God's path).
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 463.
__________
O thou my dear son!  Thy letter sweetened the heart and the spirit.  Thy lovely 1 face is engraved forever on the tablet of my heart.  I am also longing to look into thy countenance.  Say always the Greatest Name before beginning thy lessons.  The confirmation and assistance of God shall encircle thee.
Tablet from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 26 May 1914.
__________
Although thou art small, yet I hope thou wilt become great in the Kingdom.  His Highness Christ, sayeth:  "Happy is the condition of the children!"  God willing, thou art one of those children.
page 92
Be obedient and kind to thy father and mother, caressing brother and sister, and day by day adding to thy faith and assurance.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 551.
__________
O dear one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  Be the son of thy father and be the fruit of that tree.  Be a son that hath been born of his soul and heart and not only of the water and clay.  A real son is such an one as hath branches from the spiritual part of a man.  I ask God that thou mayest be at all times confirmed and strengthened.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 342.
__________
Duties of children towards God
O ye dear children!
Your father is compassionate, clement and merciful unto you and desireth for you success, prosperity and eternal life in the Kingdom of God.  Therefore, it is incumbent upon you, dear children, to seek his good pleasure, to be guided by his guidance, to be drawn by the magnet of the love of God and be brought up in the lap of the love of God; that ye may become beautiful branches in the Garden of Abhá, verdant and watered by the abundance of the gift of God.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 622.
__________
page 93
Educating children
In that hour you should make the children familiar with the prophecies in the Gospels and with the Name of God, and with this Revelation:  that is to say, instruct them how to become teachers, so that the love of God may be established in their hearts while they are young children.  They should develop spiritual feelings.  You should explain to them or read to them the Ishráqát, Tarázát, Tajallíyát, the Words of Paradise, and the Tablet of the World.  You should make them memorize some of these verses.  By these means they will become enlightened and well educated, for they are like unto a young tree: you can train them in whatever manner you like.
Spoken in February 1909, to P. A. H. and J. H. H.
__________
Praise be to God!  Thou art engaged in teaching and educating the children, for they have wonderfully memorized and read the manifest verses, the Glad-Tidings, the Communes, the Ishráqát and the Word.  I hope that each one of them (those children) will become a peerless teacher and the cause of the guidance of the people.  Praise be to God!  All the members are illumined with the light of the Beauty of Abhá!
Tablet to P. A. H.
__________
Thou hast written regarding the spiritual education of the children.  It is very acceptable and beloved.  Undoubtedly these children will make ideal and physical advancement.
Tablet to P. A. H., 21 November 1913.
__________
Indeed the sweet melody of the pupils of Mrs H. _____ gladdened the hearts of the people of the Supreme Concourse.
To Mr. R., May 1909.
__________
page 94
Sunday class is important
Question:  "Is it right that Mrs H. ____ has given up the Sunday School work?"
He looked very much surprised and grieved and said:  "Why?  No!  She must keep it up by all means.  Why does she want to give it up?"
I answered that it was too far for most of the children and some were too delicate to walk.
He said:  "If they cannot arrange to go every Sunday, they must go every other Sunday, if not every other Sunday then once a month.  But they must come together and must keep up the Sunday School."
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Miss A. S. K. spoken in Stuttgart, Germany, April 1913.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá listened very attentively to all that was said pertaining to the Sunday School, saying:  "Khaylí khúb!  Khaylí khúb!1  It is very necessary that the Sunday School be renewed again and be made active."  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá asked:  "The Sunday School is very important; then why did the parents become indifferent?  It is very essential that the Sunday School be upheld, first,
page 95
because the children are there taught the Words of Bahá'u'lláh.  Second, because the morality taught there is the true Bahá'í morality.  Third, because the children will there become firmly established in the precepts and truths of the Bahá'í Cause.  Fourth, because the Sunday School is of great value:  It is very good and they must attend it with joy and fragrance and with enthusiasm."
To Miss F. A. K., Paris, 20 May 1913.
Talks by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to other Bahá'í children
A Talk to the pupils of the Bahá'í School in 'Akká
A lesson in English by a Persian boy.
How lucky I was and what good fortune I had yesterday in the morning.  While all the scholars and I were assembled together in the school and reading our lessons suddenly our hearts were filled with joy by hearing our Master's voice blessing the believers; then he entered the school with shining face and smiling lips and began to walk very calmly through the room, addressing us and saying:  "Endeavour and strive eagerly that you may progress and advance rapidly.  You are born in this holy day, attaining this great privilege by the favour of God, therefore you must not waste or throw away this bounty and mercy.  Try always to get more manliness and humbleness and to love one another.  You are like a small plant newly sown.  If the rays of the sun reflect on it and it is watered by showers of rain there is no doubt that it will by and by grow and become a very fruitful tree;
page 96
but if cold winds blow and the plant be deprived of the shining of the sun and the rain it will certainly be withered and become a useless thing.
"Now, if you occupy yourselves, for instance, in affirming some reasons for the truth of this holy Cause and how to deliver the Word of God to everyone, these things will support and strengthen you and will prepare you for the good of this world and that which is to come; but if, God forbid, you lose your time in vain chattering and useless talk and running hither and thither, these things, be sure, will never lead you to the way of salvation.
"Never think whether you will have more or less wealth, for riches will never guide any man in the right way.
"O children," continued our Master, "there is a matter which is very important and that is this, let none of you at any time be puffed up with pride or despise any other being.  Never, never do this, this is worse than all things.  Man is a sinful blunderer, therefore he must acknowledge his faults.
"His Holiness, the blessed Báb, mentions in his book that every one must consider at the end of each day what have been his actions.  If he finds something which would please God, he must thank Him and pray to be strengthened to do this good act throughout his life; but if his actions have not been approvable or honest, he must earnestly ask God for strength to do better.
"And now," said the Master, "the report of your weekly work is good and free from blunder and fault, therefore I am greatly pleased and very happy.  I want you to work for the sake of God, and not for your own interest.  Therefore I am advising you with the greatest love and kindness for your own benefit and comfort."
These were our beloved Master's utterances yesterday in the morning.
('Abdu'l-Bahá takes a great interest in the progress of these boys, and often gives them helpful little talks; this one I have reproduced here in the words of one of the pupils, which he wrote out in English for me and which I have but slightly altered.-The Teacher.)
__________
"You must give your daughter a Bahá'í education so that she may become an excellent teacher of the Cause.  She must receive a spiritual education.  Then she will make extraordinary progress.  Religious teachings are essential for the proper development of the mind and the spirit.  If religious instruction is not given to the children they will grow heedless and lose their moral susceptibilities.  They will laugh at all moral obligations.  The children are like unto green branches.  As long as the branch is green, you can train it in whatever way you think best; but once the branch is dried up you cannot do anything with it.  If you want to straighten it it will break."
Again he spoke with little Mona.  "Do you love your parents?
"Yes!"
"Which one do you love best?  Your mother or father?"
"I love both equally."
"Bravo!  Well said!  Now tell me, do you love Bahá'u'lláh or your mother best?"
This was a difficult question.  She hesitated a moment, and then replied with much emphasis:  "Bahá'u'lláh".
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 October 1914.


IX:9, 20 August 1918
page 97
Bahá'í methods of education (continued)
Camp school in mountains approved
"When I was in Dublin," 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "the professor of the out-door school invited me to visit the pupils.  The school is in the mountains of New Hampshire, built among the woods.  All around there are green valleys, verdant balms and blue lakes.  They have a large cabin and have pitched several tents.  Their supreme object is to promote the art of beauty and gracefulness and the science of strength.  For this reason they practise callisthenics and athletics and exercise bodily training.  They are thinly clad and often sleep in the open air.  They go bathing and during certain hours they study.  Fresh air, outdoor exercise, wholesome food, clean sports, uplifting ideals and regular training of body, mind and spirit build up their constitutions and give them strong muscles, sterling characters and robust manhood.  They have a school room and dining-room and except the hours of study and meals they spend their time entirely out in the open air, learning many excellent lessons from the book of nature.  I saw there a very young lad who, I was told by the teacher, was very thin and emaciated when he was brought to the camp, but during his four weeks' stay he was completely changed, having gained flesh, health and colour, so that he could take part in the vigorous exercises.  The professor of this twentieth century school was one of the most refined and cultured men that it was my pleasure to meet in America, and he showed me much love, hospitality and affection.  The boys were most polite and decorous and although some of them were very young yet they stayed through the talk and listened most attentively.  I was very pleased with all of them.  Resourcefulness and self-control are the two lessons taught to these boys through words and deeds-so that if in the course of their lives through an accident of chequered fortune they should be thrown on an uninhabited island in the midst of the sea, they would master the situation calmly, control themselves and provide through their own ingenuity and in-
page 98
ventiveness the essential means of livelihood.  After all, this is the greatest lesson that any highly-evolved civilization can teach us.  They are so taught that when the proper time arrives, they will not shun the dangers and risks of life; that like unto the birds of the fields and the animals of the woods they may be able to procure their sustenance and protect themselves from the encroachments of the enemy."
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 July 1914.
__________
Cardinal Bahá'í principles of colleges and universities
In this age the college which is dominated by a denominational spirit is an anomaly, and is engaged in a losing fight.  It cannot long withstand the victorious forces of liberalism in education.  The universities and colleges of the world must hold fast to three cardinal principles.
First:  Whole-hearted service to the cause of education, the unfolding of the mysteries of nature, the extension of the boundaries of pure science, the elimination of the causes of ignorance and social evils, a standard universal system of instruction, and the diffusion of the lights of knowledge and reality.
Second:  Service to the cause of morality, raising the moral tone of the students, inspiring them with the sublimest ideals of ethical refinement, teaching them altruism, inculcating in their lives the beauty of holiness and the excellency of virtue and animating them with the excellences and perfections of the religion of God.
Third:  Service to the oneness of the world of humanity; so that each student may consciously realize that he is a brother to all mankind, irrespective of religion or race.  The thoughts of universal peace must be instilled into the minds of all the scholars, in order that they may become the armies of peace, the real servants of the body politic-the world.  God is the Father of all.  Mankind are His children.  This globe is one home.  Nations are the members of one family.  The mothers in their homes, the teachers in the schools, the professors in the college, the presidents in the universities, must teach these ideals to the young from the cradle up to the age of manhood.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 15 February 1914.
__________
Characteristics of Bahá'í college students
You must become the shining candles of moral precepts and spiritual ideals and be the means of the illumination of others.  Clothe your bodies with the robes of virtues.  Characterize yourselves with the characteristics of the people of divine morality.  Shun all manner of vices as you shun a poisonous snake or a leper.  Let the corps of professors and the students be impressed with the purity and holiness of your lives so that they may take you as paragons of worthiness, examples of nobility of nature, observers of the moral laws, holding in subordination the lower element by the higher spirit, the conquerors of self and the masters of wholesome, vital forces in all the avenues of life.  Strive always to be at the head of your classes through hard study and true merit.  Be always in a prayerful state and appreciate the value of everything.  Entertain high ideals and stimulate your intellectual and constructive forces.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 17 April 1914.
__________
I hope that while you are studying in this college you may so excel all other students in the various branches of knowledge taught therein that all of them may testify that the Bahá'í students have another power, are inspired with another
page 99
effort, are imbued with a nobler ambition, are stimulated by higher motives and make wider and deeper exertions than others.  If you do not surpass the others, then what distinction will there remain for you?  Therefore, you must strive to be superior to them, so that everyone may bear testimony to this fact.  You are now like the tender plants that are trained according to the knowledge and wisdom of the gardener.  From now on, you must strive to beautify the moral aspect of your lives.  Advise one another with utmost consideration, watch daily your words and deeds; thus from the very beginning you may characterize yourselves with divine ideals.
The divine ideals are humility, submissiveness, annihilation of self, perfect evanescence, charity and loving-kindness.  You must die to self and live in God.  You must be exceedingly compassionate to one another and to all the people of the world.  Love and serve mankind just for the sake of God and not for anything else.  The foundation of your love toward humanity must be spiritual faith and divine assurance.
Again:  be ye most careful that, God forbid, not one single word contrary to truth issue from your mouths.  One falsehood throws man from the highest station of honour to the lowest abyss of disgrace.  Always guard yourselves against this enemy so that all you state may correspond with reality.  Forever supplicate and entreat at the Court of Majesty and beg confirmation and assistance.  Make ye an effort that ye may win the good pleasure of the Blessed Perfection.  All the natural and supernatural advancements in the human world revolve around this one problem.  If you attain to this supreme goal all the elements of the world of creation will be ready to serve you at your bidding, (i.e., they will find their highest attainment in you and through you), or in other words you will become the fruits of the world of existence.  The evolution of the trunk, branches, leaves and blossoms of the tree is the fruit thereof.  Exalt your thought.  Reflect over all your affairs.  Magnify your endeavours.  Enlarge the circle of your ideals.  Open the wings of spiritual wisdom.  Let your hope be the accomplishment of most great deeds, the results of which may immortalize your names.  All that the people are holding fast to is as the mirage and will not last.  Praise be to God, that you are under the protection of Bahá'u'lláh and His bounties have encircled you.  I will always pray for you, and with the utmost humility beg extraordinary progress for you.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 15 April 1914.
__________
To the Bahá'í students of Beirut College (Syria)
Praise be to God, that the Bahá'í students in Beirut are well known for the beauty of their character, the purity of their deeds, and the loftiness of their morality.  From whomsoever one enquires about the Bahá'í students, one will hear unstinted praise.  This is through the favours and bounties of the Blessed Beauty, who has assisted you to attain such a high station.  For you have lived in a manner conducive to the glorification of the Cause of God.  Bahá'u'lláh is pleased with you; all the people are pleased with you; I am pleased with you, and the friends of God are pleased with you.  This is the special divine bounty, which is being realized at rare intervals.  If one asks any person concerning the Bahá'í students, he will answer:  "In reality they are intelligent, sober, industrious, diligent, displaying good manners and behaviour and concentrating all their attention on their acquirement of knowledge.  They do not spend their time in frivolous amusements and distracting recreations."  Even the enemies testify to your spotless character.  I hope that through the favour and bounty of the Blessed Beauty, his holiness the Báb, and the ineffable bless-
page 100
ings which hallow this holy shrine,1 the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá may encircle you, and that you may be characterized with the shining qualities and brilliant attributes of the Bahá'í life.  May your morality become more defined day by day!  May your faith and assurance be increased day by day!  May your attraction to the kingdom of Abhá be intensified day by day!  May your attainment in sciences and arts become more universal day by day!  Perchance, God willing, you may become perfect and accomplished from every standpoint and he the means of the enlightenment of Persia.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 October 1914.
__________
God be praised!  How wonderful are these students!2  I am looking forward with great hope to their future!  In reality they are beneath the shade of the Blessed Perfection, they are being animated with the spirit of the Holy Land.  For this reason, they are superior to many students.  Their mettle will become known in the future.  They are now under the process of refining.  When they come out of the crucible their brightness will become manifest.  The Word of God is the refining which will polish them, suffering them to become pure as tested gold.  Every single assured and firm believer will consider himself the servant of all the friends of God, nay rather the servant of the world of humanity.  The honour of man depends upon this.  The everlasting glory of mankind lies in this!  For this reason His Holiness Christ says:  "The last shall be first, the least among you in the Kingdom is the greatest."  Whosoever desires to walk in the path of the Kingdom-so that he may reach the court of the Almighty-must be a true servant.  The path of God cannot be compared with the paths of men.  The humbler the man is in the path of God, the more exalted is he; the greater his meekness and submissiveness, the more beloved is he; the more he is surrounded with tests and trials, the vaster the tranquillity and composure of his spirit.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 15 July 1914.
page 101
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá regarding infants before and after birth
To an expectant mother
Your child will have extraordinary capacities.  It will be a Bahá'í.  Rear it in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Rest assured your child will be assisted by the Divine Concourse, and through this assistance it will exhibit a universal consciousness.  For this Cause encompasses the West and the East, and children born under these conditions in this day will have the advantages of the universal illumination.  Today some children are called prodigies, but the inheritors of this Cause will attain to a degree that the others, even though educated in the best schools and with every advantage, know nothing of.
Children blessed in this way before they are born are of the new race.  I was born in Persia, and while I nursed with my mother's milk I received truth.  When a little child my first words were "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!"
Divine Philosophy, p. 59.
__________
Supplication for an expectant mother
My Lord!  My Lord!  I praise Thee and I thank Thee for that whereby Thou hast favoured Thine humble maid-servant, Thy slave, beseeching and supplicating Thee-because Thou hast verily guided her to thine obvious Kingdom and caused her to hear Thine exalted call in the contingent world and to behold Thy signs, which prove Thy victorious reign over all things.
O my Lord!  I dedicate that which is in my womb to Thee.  Then cause it to be a praiseworthy child in Thy Kingdom and a fortunate one by Thy favour and generosity; to develop and grow up under the charge of Thine education.
Verily, Thou are the Generous!  Verily, Thou art the Lord of Great Favour!
__________
Immortality of undeveloped infant souls
Question:  "What becomes of an undeveloped infant's soul?"
Answer by 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "It rests with the mercy of God and through the eternal bounty it will not be deprived of that mercy."
Ten Days in the Light of Acca, page 4.
__________
Station of oppressed infants and weak ones
As to the subject of babes and infants and weak ones who are afflicted by the hands of oppressors:  This contains great wisdom and this a subject of paramount importance.  In brief, for those souls there is a recompense in another world and many details are connected with this matter.  For those souls that suffering is the greatest mercy of God.  Verily, that mercy of the Lord is far preferable to all the comfort of this world and the growth and development of this place of mortality.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 337.
__________
Children of unbelievers and infidels who die before the age of responsibility are not punished, because they are under the favour of God.
Mrs L. M. G. Notes.
__________
page 102
'Abdu'l-Bahá's interpretation of a dream
"A young girl became evident to me as belonging with the family, but I could not make out who she was.  She spoke of a horse that my son had had long ago, but I did not understand what she meant.  After a time it became known that she was my daughter, and I felt grieved to think that I had not been conscious of her presence in all the past years.  She seemed not hurt, but surprised that we did not understand her.  Just as I was waking, I realized that she was our little baby who had passed away over twenty-one years ago, when nine months old." (End of dream.)
Mrs _____ added:  "She was my idol, and because I loved her so much, I tried hard to put her out of my thought, and the dream made me feel that we should not do this."
'Abdu'l-Bahá interpreted it thus:
"That child is your trust within the charge of God.  She was a child when she went, but you shall find her full grown in the Kingdom of God.  You shall find her mature.  You shall not find her there as a child.  You shall find her perfect and mature.
"As to the horse once belonging to your son, of which she spoke:  Horse in the dream means a wish.  It shows that your daughter has fulfilled her wish and her desire, and that shows the loftiness of her station.  The wish is one in which your son shared, but she attained to it.  It is my hope, God willing, that, he, too, will attain to it."
Surprise was expressed that a child of only nine months could have a wish, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The child was born with a wish."
Mrs _____ was crying, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá continued:  "Do not cry.  Be happy because you saw her, and you saw her perfected.  You must be happy.  She is your trust with God.  You have not lost her out of your hands.  The only difference is this; that you gave her as a trust to God as a child, but you will take her back as a full grown person.  I had a son who was four years old, and when he died I did not at all change my attitude.  I gave my son to God as a trust, and so at his death I did not grieve."
Mrs _____ said:  "But there is a difference, you gave your son to God, but God takes ours."
'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "It is the same thing.  In both cases it is a trust of God."
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The cause of her surprise, is this-that you are crying; your daughter would say:  'I have a good mother.  She must be happy.  Why does she cry?  I am surprised.'  The cause of her surprise is the thought that you do not recognize her.  She belongs to a realm in which everything becomes mature, and she expected you to see her in the state of perfection in which she manifested herself to you; but the fact that you looked at her in this way, and that now you are crying-is a proof of your not having recognized her.  For had you recognized her in the dream, you would not be crying now."
Relative to the comment of Mrs _____ that she tried to put the child out of her thoughts, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "It is not in man's control when to forget one.  It is not good for one to try to forget them.  One must always remember them."
Notes by M. H. sent to 'Akká for approval and returned with the signature of 'Abdu'l-Bahá as correct.
__________
page 103
Christening or naming a babe
When thou wishest to name a babe, prepare a meeting therefor; chant the verses and communes, and supplicate and implore the Threshold of Oneness and beg the attainment of guidance for the babe and wish confirmed firmness and constancy; then give the name and enjoy beverage and sweetmeats.  This is spiritual baptism.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 49.
__________
Question:  "Should we baptize infants?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "The people have not understood the meaning of baptism.  In one place in the Gospels it is commanded that one must be baptized by water and spirit, and also by fire, and from these commands we can understand that the meaning is spiritual and not material.  The baptism of Christians as practised today is not the teachings of Christ!  The Christians in the beginning used to baptize as a symbol of the purification of the spirit.
"When the time drew near for the Manifestation of Christ, John the Baptist appeared and called the people to repentance, and when they repented they were baptized as a symbol that their hearts were purified and ready to accept the truth and teachings which would soon appear, for John was declaring the coming of Jesus.  But these people were not children; they were men and women.  And Jesus himself was baptized by John, but he was thirty years old when he was baptized.  After he was baptized he said:  'John has baptized you with water, but I shall baptize you with the Spirit!'  Water symbolizes the knowledge of God which gives eternal life, because all forms of life had their beginning in the water.  Fire is the symbol of love, and the baptism by fire means the love of God which descends in the hearts that are turned unto him!  Now as fire is used to symbolize love, be sure that water is used also as a, symbol, for would it be possible for one to be put into the fire as one is put into the water for baptism?  Many who have not understood what Christ meant by baptism think if a child dies without passing through this ceremony its soul is lost!  But this is not true, for the child has not sinned and goes from this world quite free from faults and defects!  And oftimes baptism of infants is attended by great danger to the child.
"One time I was invited in this very house to witness the baptism of a baby who was very young.  They had put olive oil in the water and when they put the child into it, it shrieked and struggled, swallowing some of the oil and water, after which it, together with the shock to the nervous system, caused the child to be very ill, and it died.  These are ceremonies which have a spiritual meaning but no spiritual effect upon the soul!"
To Mrs L. M. G., 18 April 1904.
__________
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá regarding the importance of prayer
The sweetest thing in this world is to obey strictly the commands of God and shun His prohibitions.  Through this the attractions of the love of God will be created in human consciousness.
For example, there is nothing sweeter in the world of existence than prayer.  Man must live in a state of prayerfulness.  The most blessed condition is the condition of prayer and supplication.  Prayer is "conversation with God".  The greatest attainment or the sweetest state is no other than "conversation with God".  It creates spirituality, generates mindfulness and celestial feelings, begets the attraction of
page 104
the Kingdom and engenders the susceptibilities of the higher intelligence.  The highest attribute given to His Holiness Moses is the following verse:  "God carried on a conversation with Moses."
What is prayer?  It is "conversation with God".  While man prays he sees himself in the presence of God.  If he concentrates his attention he will surely at the time of prayer realize that he is "conversing with God".  Often at night I do not sleep, and the thoughts of this world weigh heavily on my mind.  I toss uneasily in my bed.  Then in the darkness of the night I get up and pray-"converse with God".  It is most sweet and uplifting.  Prayer and supplication are so effective as to inspire one's heart for the whole day with high ideals and supreme serenity and calmness.  One's heart must be sensitive to the music of prayer.  He must feel the effect of prayer.  He must not be like an organ from which softest notes stream forth without having consciousness of sensation in itself.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 15 March 1914.
__________
Mount Carmel is enveloped with the white mantle of spirituality.  Its atmosphere is permeated with an indescribable peace and tranquillity.  During these matchless moonlight nights, one's heart becomes tender and the mind wistful and meditative, pensive and musing.  It is as though the trees, the brooks, the rocks, the sea, the grass, the stars hold communion with man and whisper into his ears the secrets of nature.  It was mainly owing to this reason that the ancient prophets of God lived in the grottoes and caves of this mountain so that they might spend their time in quiet meditation.  The divine, holy prophets have two stations.  The first is the station of "abstraction".  This is the station wherein they communicate with God, receive the graces of the Holy Spirit and become intimate with the fragrances of holiness.  The second station is the station of "plurality".  In this station they occupy themselves with the education of mankind.  They have, as a result, to bear the enmity, persecution and calumny of the people.  On account of their pride, haughtiness and conceit the people assail these divine temples of Truth; notwithstanding this they bring forward proofs and arguments, instruct them through the heavenly advices and exhortations and little by little cause them to ascend to the lofty height of beatific purity.  This work is most exacting and difficult, yet they do not murmur.  But the world of "abstraction" in which they quaff the chalice of immortality, is very pleasant and spiritual.  It is a super-individual experience, commonly shared by all the elect of God.  It is the light of the spirit and the spirit of the world.  Its sweet delicacy is enjoyed by every class.  For this reason, whenever the prophets of old desired to commune with God and enter the realm of "abstraction", they came to this holy mountain and prayed during the day and the night, thus strengthening in this manner the basis of their inspiration.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 6 September 1914.
__________
Beg everything thou desirest from Bahá'u'lláh.  If thou art asking faith, ask of Him.  If thou art yearning after knowledge, He will grant it unto thee.  If thou art longing for the love of God.  He will bestow it upon thee.  He will descend upon thee all His Blessings.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 May 1914.


IX:10, 8 September 1918
page 113
Bahá'í methods of education (continued)
In prayer
Prayer and supplication are two wings whereby man soars toward the heavenly mansion of the True One.  However, verbal repetition of prayer does not suffice.  One must live in a perennial attitude of prayer.  When man is spiritually free, his mind becomes the altar and his heart the sanctuary of prayer.  Then the meaning of the verse "We will lift up from before his eyes the veil" will become fulfilled in him.  Whenever I wanted to go to the Palace of Bahjí to meet the Blessed Perfection, I walked alone and on foot, in order to be in an attitude of prayer.  In the Mosque of 'Akká for many years I had a simple room all to myself to which no one had any access.  Now and then I would go there and stay one whole day, passing the time in quiet contemplation and prayer.  But later on the affairs of the Cause became manifold, and I had to give practically all my time to their dispatch and management.  Thus I could no longer enjoy those peaceful hours of spiritual reflection.  How I would love to be able to arrange now so that I might go away alone and live in entire seclusion!  For this reason I went to Tiberias, but it was not much of a seclusion.
Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 June 1914.
__________
In prayer one must turn his face towards the sanctified Reality of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh-that Reality which surrounds all the phenomena.  During the time of prayer His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh must be singly and alone the centre towards whom all the faces are turned.
Excerpt from Tablet.  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 30 July 1914.
__________
Prayers for children
Make thou this little maid-servant a brilliant-starred daughter of the King-
page 114
dom; endear her in the Threshold of Oneness and overflow her with the cup of Thy love, in order that she may raise the cries of joy and ecstasy and mix ambergris1 with musk.
Verily, Thou art the Powerful and the Mighty, and Thou art the Wise, the Seer!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 551.
__________
Prayers to memorize and use
O Thou pure God!  I am a little child; make Thou the bosom of Thy gift a dear resting place of comfort; suffer me to grow and be nurtured with the honey and milk of Thy love and train me under the breast of Thy knowledge.  Bestow Thou freedom while in a state of childhood and grant Thou excellence.
O Thou Incomparable One!  Make me the confidant of the Kingdom of the unseen!  Verily, Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful!
Little book of prayers.
__________
O unequalled Lord!  For this helpless child be a protector!  For this weak and sinful one be kind and forgiving.
O Creator!  Although we are but useless grass, yet we are of Thy garden.  Though we are but young trees, bare of leaves and blossoms, yet we are of Thy orchard.
Therefore nourish this grass with the rain of Thy bounty, refresh and vivify these young, languishing trees with the eternal springtime.
Awaken us, enlighten us, give us eternal life and accept us in Thy kingdom.
Little book of prayers.
__________
O loving God!  I am a young child, a suppliant, a captive.  Be Thou my refuge, my support, my protector.  I am in distress:  give me the means of tranquillity.  I am needy:  bestow upon me the treasure of the Kingdom.  I am dead:  give me the spirit of life.  I am weak:  favour
page 115
me with power and strength, so that I may be a maid-servant in Thy threshold, with perfect purity and sanctity; sacrifice myself unto Thee, be quit of myself and seek Thee, walk in the path of Thy good pleasure, speak Thy secret and witness the signs of Thy oneness wherever I look.  O God!  Make me ablaze, like unto the fire of Thy love, and make me free from attachment to this mortal world, until I find the peace of soul and the rest of conscience.
Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty!  Thou art the Hearer, the Seer!
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 196.
__________
O Thou kind God!  I am a little babe; exalt me at the threshold of Thy Kingdom.  I live on this earth; make me heavenly.  I am of this world; make me of the world of the realm of might.  I exist in this world of darkness; make me illumined.  I am material; make me spiritual and suffer me to become the manifestor of infinite bounties.  Thou art the Powerful, the Compassionate!
Tablet.
__________
O God!  Educate Thou this little child in the arm of Thy knowledge and nurse her at the breast of Thy providence.  Plant Thou this fresh flower in the rose-garden of Thy love and refresh it by the showers from the clouds of Thy gifts.  Make her one of the children of the Kingdom and guide her toward the realm of the Most High.  Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Kind; Thou art the Giver, the Generous, the Bounteous.
Another translation of a Commune in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 50.)


IX:10, 8 September 1918
page 105
Talks by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Holy Land (continued)
The following compilation of some of the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá after his return to the Holy Land from America, Europe and Egypt.
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
[Previous sections are in XI:2, pp. 17-19, 23-24; and XI:3, pp. 25-31, 34-38.]
Hájí 'Abbás is the name of an old Bahá'í who lived in 'Akká and for more than thirty years was chosen by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to be the lantern carrier.  Almost every night, whether walking in the dark narrow streets of the prison city 'Akká or in the fields outside, he was the only one who accompanied 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  (The translator, and perhaps others, entertained the thought that this man, on account of his bravery, strength and courage, was chosen to be as a guard to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  But in recent years, it became evident that Hájí 'Abbás, during all those years of apparently faithful service was concealing a deadly weapon for the purpose of betraying and murdering 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whenever he could find an opportunity.  This was because his mind was poisoned and his heart changed by the deceitful náqidín and the bitter enemies with whom he had joined.)  'Abdu'l-Bahá said regarding this person:  "He was so sick and exhausted in 'Akká when he came to me for help and assistance, that I placed him in a hospital in Haifa and I loved him very much."  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá turned to Áqá Muhammad Kirmání who was present and said to him:
"Tell me what is the voice that is calling loud in Kirmán (Persia)?  Is it the voice of the darvíshes (tramps) or the moaning of shaykhís (a Muslim cult)?  For the sake of the elevation of the call of God all these voices shall be silenced.  When the call of God rises, all other calls become erased and forgotten.  When the movement of the Supreme Pen (Bahá'u'lláh) becomes audible, undoubtedly the buzzing of flies ceases.  This is evident.  May God give assistance and confirmation to the souls who serve the supreme word and elevate this call.  The powers of the Kingdom of Abhá and the divine confirmations will assist and reinforce every one who becomes engaged in teaching the Cause of God.  There is no doubt about this."
__________
23 February 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá and a number or the friends took a walk outside the city of Haifa.  He told them of the lofty degrees of severance and attraction of the old friends in the Cause, and when they passed by a cave he showed it to Mírzá Sohráb and said:  "We had a person by the name of Ustád Ismá'íl.  Indeed, he was peerless.  He suffered great calamities and ordeals in Tihrán (Persia) and in Baghdád-they confiscated all his belongings and they took his wife, yet he was in the utmost joy and he used to say, 'Praise be to God!  They have taken
page 106
my wife and my belongings.  God willing, a day cometh when I may sacrifice my life in the path of God!'  When he reached 'Akká it was at a time when no one was allowed to enter the forts.  When I heard this I managed to get him into the barracks.  After one month I sent him to Haifa.  He dwelt in this cave.  He became a peddler in the daytime and in the nights he used to chant with attractive and indescribable sincerity the verses which the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) had sent to him."
In the afternoon of the same day 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following utterances to the friends who gathered in his home:
"It is the duty of all the friends to help the families of the martyrs.  They have become flesh of my flesh because the martyrs have sacrificed their lives for me.  Whosoever renders a service to the families of the martyrs is serving the Blessed Beauty.  Whosoever supports them is supporting the Blessed Beauty.  Whosoever becomes a self-sacrifice in their behalf is a self-sacrifice in the path of the Beauty of Abhá.  The great martyrdom or the sacrifice of life is like unto a mirror and when turned toward the sun, the temple and the body of the mirror become utterly effaced; that is, the martyrs efface themselves in the love of God to such an extent that the bodies and mirrors no longer exist.  They become the rays of the sun.  Therefore, everything that is related or belongs to them belongs to God.  Whosoever serves them serves God.  Whosoever loves them, verily, he loves God.  It is not a joke-when the time of test comes, for then the truth becomes known.  Justice must be given.  If a thorn enters our hand, we cry and become restless.  If our head aches we become restless.  But the sharp sword takes away one's life.  The martyrs have tasted the sweetness of that cup.  That is why His Holiness, the Messenger (Muhammad) said, 'The martyrs have stations that prophets are envious of.'  Thus His Holiness the Supreme (the Báb)-May my soul be a ransom to him!-when addressing the Blessed Beauty, in his book titled Ahsanu'l-Qisas (The Best of Stories), said, 'O our great Lord! verily, everything in me I sacrifice to Thee and I desire only to be killed in Thy path.'  To whom do these addresses in the Ahsanu'l-Qisas refer?  Undoubtedly to the One-Whom-God-Shall-Manifest, that is His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, and not to Mírzá Yahyá (Azal).  They used to attribute these references, before the declaration of the Manifestation to an imaginary person.  Afterwards it became evident that the person was existing.  But before investigation they believed that those references meant the Qá'im himself, yet the Báb was the Qá'im (Forerunner).  Therefore, from these references, it becomes evident that the One-Whom-God-Shall-Manifest was existing.  He (the Báb) says, moreover, 'By God, the Truth!  I am an húrí (girl of paradise) born from Bahá, in a place of the red ruby, and by all those who are in heaven, I yearn for the soul that is killed in the path of God.'"
Afterwards, 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed infinite kindness to Mírzá 'Ináyatu'lláh Khán, the son of Mullá Ismá'íl, the martyr.  Then he ordered the friends to be served with fruits and preserves.  One of the Zoroastrian Bahá'ís was present at that time and 'Abdu'l-Bahá said the following to him about another believer:  "Indeed, Mullá Bahrám (a Zoroastrian Bahá'í) is a blessed being.  He is active in the Cause of God and is never still.  The station of such souls is not known now, but it will become evident in the future.  During the first century of the holy Manifestations the beginning of the revelation is like the day, because the Sun of Reality is shining upon all the horizons, the stars are invisible.  But in the second century, the station and the degree of the sincere ones will become evident.  Their lights will become manifest and bright like unto the shining stars.  The stations of the apostles of His Holi-
page 107
ness Christ became known after three hundred years."
In the evening there was a general meeting in the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Mr Rothchild, a great financier, visited Haifa and 'Abdu'l-Bahá talked about wealth.  He said in part:  "Unless the souls are believers in God and assured in the verses of God, wealth causes the hearts to be hardened and without light."  At the close of the meeting a supplication of repentance, confession and pleading written by Hájí Alíy-i-Yazdí, was read in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the hearts of those who were present became touched.  They turned their faces to the Horizon of the Cause, and implored the Kingdom of the Covenant and of the Beauty of Abhá for a new confirmation.  (Hájí Alíy-i-Yazdí was at one time one of the náqidín or violators of the Covenant and he lives in 'Akká.)
__________
24 February 1918.
Today, 'Abdu'l-Bahá revealed tablets, concerning deeds.  In one of them he says, "The deeds of man must be the cause of glory.  Everything that is conducive to the honour of the religion of God is good.  Every action that becomes the means of the elevation of the Word of God is accepted.  This is the standard."
Afterwards, a group of Arabs and a Drusí Shaykh1 (a priest or chief of a sect originally Muslim), went to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá and he talked to them about the sublime qualities of the world of humanity.  He said:  "Generosity, courage, faithfulness, truthfulness, etc., are all shining stars and brilliant planets.  They are the cause of the illumination of hearts, of the assurance of souls, of the honour and dignity of man in this world and in the Kingdom."
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to the believers about the station of sanctity and severance.  He said, "In this station, the souls are tested.  This is what Bahá'u'lláh said:  'By the life of God! all shall be sifted just as the wheat is separated from the tares.  In a sieve they shall be cleaned and purified from dust and chaff'.  Likewise, those whose actions are good, will be distinguished from the others.  Therefore, in every cycle when a sifting and a great testing occur, all (the violators) will fall away except the sincere souls, who come under the shadow of the Word of God.  The sea does not accept the dead.  The souls who come under the shadow of the Cause of God are holy and purified from all superstitions.  Consider the blessed souls who were sent forth into Persia during the beginning of the Revelation.  All have sacrificed their lives, given up their possessions and homes, in the path of God.  But on the other hand, the deniers, who arose in opposition, became occupied in vain pursuits and, night and day, thought only of fame and easy life.  Their hearts were not pure and their souls were waning in hopes and desires.  This happens in every cycle.  'Can light and darkness exist at the same time'?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Sea of Galilee
6 June 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá uttered the following words to a Persian family known as Falláh, who went to visit him at Tiberias on the Sea of Galilee:
"In all the cities, the friends who are firm and steadfast, become the cause of guidance and illumination of the people.  They endeavour to elevate the hearts and to enlighten the minds.  For example, an arid valley, deserts of sand and waterless mountains which were near the equator and subject to intense heat, became the light of all the horizons and the pilgrimage of the people of the
page 108
world, when it was illumined by the coming of His Highness the Messenger-May my soul be a ransom to him and his friends!  How much it is advanced!  In the beginning it was an insignificant village and now it is the mother of the cities (Mecca)."
__________
8 June 1914.
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb read to 'Abdu'l-Bahá an article from the Christian Commonwealth, in which there was an appeal to Christianity to cease its useless ceremonies and to return to its original simplicity and spirituality.  The article spoke also of a minister who courageously said to an assembly of ministers that "the time had now come for us to be ashamed of receiving high salaries and to be living in such comfort and luxury while the poor are left in such misery.  We must leave the thoughts of our desires and become self-sacrificing."  'Abdu'l-Bahá then said:
"They talk of doing, but they do not act.  They think it would be easy to do this.  They do not understand the meaning of martyrdom or self-sacrifice.  As soon as a needle pricks the hand, their cries reach the heavens.  There is no comparison between these souls and the sanctity and the self-sacrifice of the disciples of His Holiness Christ.  They do not even breathe alike.  It is the Bahá'ís who walk in the footsteps of Christ and his disciples.  They endure such calamities, hardships of hunger and thirst, prison, murder, persecution and malice.  They have endured all sufferings.  These men of passion and desire-how can they do such things?  There was an ákhúnd (Muslim priest) who thought that one of his fingers had become unclean and could not be purified.  He went to a butcher and said, 'Come thou and cut off my finger.  I do not want it.'  The butcher replied, 'This is impossible.  It is not easy to cut off a finger.  The blood will flow like a fountain and there will be severe pain.'  The ákhúnd replied, 'No!  there is only one way and that is that thou shouldst cut.'  When the butcher considered the ákhúnd's great persistence he replied, 'Very well.  Put thou thy hand on this block.'  Then with the back of his knife, he pressed upon the finger.  Suddenly the ákhúnd pulled away his hand and began to scream, 'Ouch! thou hast cut my hand!  What an oppressor and unjust man!  How cruel and unmerciful thou art!'  Briefly, it is very easy to write and to speak upon these matters,
page 109
but it is hard to put them into action.  Twenty years ago, this thought, that they must go out to teach as the disciples of Christ had done, was widespread among the Christians.  Three or four persons went forth, but they could not endure it for more than two or three months."
One of the believers asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá to explain what is meant by the special indulgence (in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas) during the holidays.  To this he replied:  "Bad conduct or deeds are not allowed at any time and especially during the Feast.  But those are the days of happiness, days of joy and gladness.  This is from the verses that shall be known afterwards.  For example, it is bad not to work on other days, but in these days of feasts, work must be abandoned.  But it does not mean that it is permissible to drink liquor or commit immoral deeds.  Those days are the days of forgiveness and pardon, days of cheer and enjoyment, days of affection and attraction, days of blessings.  Such deeds as may become the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity must be manifested by man."
To some of the visitors who were leaving for Haifa, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "God willing, ye shall be always under the protection of the Truth.  In your behalf, I seek favour and bounty from the Blessed Beauty.  Rest ye assured.  I am happy that ye shall be confirmed in everything.  I am pleased with ye and shall never forget ye.  Convey the wonderful Abhá greetings to every one of the friends of God.  Call them to steadfastness and firmness in the Cause of God so that the calamities and hardships may not become the cause of their relaxation.  Should the sea of tests become almost overwhelming, it must not have any effect upon them.  Consider ye that after His Holiness the Spirit (Christ), the disciples did not stop for a moment nor did they choose rest for themselves.  They strove night and day.  Then it is evident how much we must show self-sacrifice, service and steadfastness to the Most Holy Threshold!  If the disciples had not been firm, after the departure of His Holiness the Christ, his Cause would have been utterly effaced and made non-existent.  Now, the friends of God must be likewise firm and exercise effort and zeal in teaching the Cause of God.  They may rest assured that the safety, protection, confirmation and assistance of the Blessed Beauty shall reach them.  They must not be shaken by anything.  Night and day, I pray in their behalf."
Mr E. M. Newman, one of the best known and most eloquent American lecturers, who spends five months of the year travelling in different countries, collecting the moving picture photographs of famous people and places to accompany his talks, came to the Holy Land in 1914.  He went to 'Akká to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Not finding him there, he proceeded to Tiberias, where he and his party of two men and one lady, met and talked with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  They asked questions about the purpose of the Bahá'í Religion, to which 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "The purpose of this Cause is the investigation of Reality and the oneness of all religions.  Bahá'u'lláh accepted fifty years of banishment, persecution and imprisonment for these divine principles.  Now, praise be to God, His teachings have illumined the horizons of the East, delivered the souls and minds from worthless limitations, elevated the signs of guidance and united the East and the West with a spiritual power."
Among a number of Persian believers who came to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá, was one from the city of Yazd, where (some years ago) a great number of Bahá'ís had been martyred.  'Abdu'l-Bahá inquired about the friends in Yazd and Tihrán saying:  "How are the friends of God?  Are they enkindled and attracted?  Those souls who arose against the Cause and brought about dissensions
page 110
and corruptions, who brought hardships and afflictions upon the friends, think that they shall attain the greatest ease and happiness.  But they have failed and lost all and their own households have been scattered to the winds.  What have the people of Persia to say?  All of this they have seen with their own eyes.  With their ears, they have heard that no trace is left of a soul, who had enmity towards the friends of God.  Are they not yet awakened?  Have they not yet arisen from the sleep of heedlessness?"
After having talked on the subject of Socialism from a Bahá'í standpoint to a minister who had come to see him, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "His Holiness the Christ came to spread the law of love.  The appearance of the Messengers and the revelation of the Books were for the promulgation of the law of love.  But the souls with self-interest have made religion the cause of hate and animosity.  They have stirred up among mankind quarrels and strife.  Why should we oppress or be unjust to other religions?  Why should we not love one another?  Why should we curse and execrate?  Every one of us must be the centre of love, the sun of love, the sea of love, the star of love, the light of love and the heaven of love.  We must be kind to all, wish no evil to anyone and know that all humanity is from one progeny."
__________
9 June 1914.
The following tablet was revealed today for the friends in the Orient, at Tiberias, the Sea of Galilee:
HE IS GOD!
"With regard to the assembly, there must be spiritual consultation therein; discourses about the manifestation of the Greatest Orb, the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the greatness of the blessed Cause, the power and penetration of the Word of God, the might of the divine Covenant and Testament must be mentioned.  This will be conducive to the spirituality and illumination of the hearts.  Every discussion besides this, will not give complete results.  Therefore, you must have no secrets in your assembly and no word should be spoken that, were it made public, might be the cause o£ depression or sorrow to any soul.
"The utterances of all must be concentrated in consultations concerning teaching and the promulgation of the Cause of God.  In this way, there will be no secrets that might be spread.  We have nothing to conceal, thanks be to God.  We are famous for our devotion and all of the creatures jeer at us for our love in the path of God.  Besides this we have no aim.  It is impossible to have a secret that will not spread.  It has been tried many times, especially when among a number of souls.  It is said that every secret going beyond two people will go farther, because every member of the assembly must have a confidant in whom he has perfect trust, and oneness of condition.  That person also has a confidant and, unquestionably, will not keep it from him.  Therefore, it is much better not to have among you privacy and secrecy.  May all of our secrets be a sacrifice to the secret of Bahá, and all of our confidentials be a ransom to Him.  The secrets of Bahá are:  The oneness of the world of humanity, universal love, mercy and compassion to the broken-hearted, sympathy to the suffering, peace and happiness to the world of humanity, merciful breath, attraction to the fragrance of God, severance of the heart from attachment to the transitory world, liberty, purity, relief from worries and anxieties of the earth, etc.  Should such secrets spread they would become the cause of the life of the world."
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
11 June 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá went to bid farewell to Mr Newman and his companions.  He said:  "I pray that God may aid your
page 111
journeys and that you may return to America with the utmost happiness and safety.  May you be confirmed in a great service to the world of humanity.  I shall think of you continually and I shall never forget this meeting at Tiberias."
In the afternoon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá sat near the window at the hotel and revealed tablets for two of the friends who had departed from this mortal world.  The following is for the family of an old believer known as 'Abdu'-r-Razzáq:
"O my Lord, confirm these Thy servants and maid-servants with Thy ever increasing mercy and complete bounty, ordain for all of them immersion in the seas of Thy mercy, attainment to Thy generosity and bestowal, fulfilment of Thy greatest hopes, possession of Thy grandest gifts and bounty in the beginning and in the end, so that the angels of Thy mercy may commune with them in the mornings and in the evenings.  Verily, Thou art the Beloved, the Generous!"
The following is for Yúsúf (Joseph), the father of a believer known as 'Abdu'l-Ghaní:
"O my God!  O my God!  Verily, Thy slave, Joseph, the faithful, ascended to Thy supreme heaven hoping for Thy innumerable favours.  O Lord! reach him with Thy forgiveness and pardon, O my Lord, the Merciful!  Usher him to the summit of paradise.  Verily, Thou art the Kind, the Bestower, and verily, Thou art the Generous, the Forgiver."
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to the pilgrims about the days of Christ and how he walked alone near the animals on the shore of Lake Tiberias (Sea of Galilee); and concerning the people, how they were prevented from seeing and knowing the Manifestation of God through their blindness, in these days.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The Supreme Báb was the promised one of the Qur'án, with regard to the question of the Seal of the Prophets.  Muhammad was known as the Seal of the Prophets. (The Muslims think this title means that no prophet will appear after Muhammad.)  This belief is not only limited to the Muslims.  The Jews believed that Moses was the Seal of the Prophets, that he sealed the prophethood of Laws.  The Christians believe that after Christ, no prophet with Laws will come, but that Christ himself will descend from heaven.  Yes, these creatures are not waiting for the manifestation of the Truth, they are waiting for the manifestation of their own superstitions.  Fox example, the Muslims are waiting for the Dajjál (false Christ or anti-Christ) more than for the Qá'im (the Forerunner or Precursor of the Manifestation).  They do not associate the appearance of the anti-Christ with the Forerunner.  Nay, rather they associate the appearance of the Forerunner with the appearance of the anti-Christ.  This (the anti-Christ) is known to them as unlimited or independent, the Forerunner as limited and dependent."
__________
12 June 1914.
When speaking of readiness, capacity and purity of hearts, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Should a black stone be placed facing the light of the sun, the signs of brilliancy would not appear, but, in the pure mirror, the sun, with all of its attributes and perfections, becomes reflected instantly."
Some Zoroastrian friend brought fruits and vegetables for 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but he ate only bread and hot milk.  Then he sat on the balcony facing the Sea of Galilee.  A long letter was read from Mrs Lua M. Getsinger, saying that she was confirmed in giving the message to more than one thousand people at a meeting in India, that she answered all of the questions asked by Muslim and Zoroastrian nobles; also good news about the spreading of the Cause was received from Chicago, Washington, New York, London and Stuttgart, all
page 112
of which became the cause of joy to his blessed heart.
__________
13 June 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá made the following statements concerning man's duty:  "Man must be qualified with the attributes of the Kingdom.  Man must characterize himself with the characteristics of the Merciful.  Man must be the source of the perfections of God.  Man must be good personified.  Man must be the cause of comfort and ease to human society.  Man must be the fountain of the signs (or verses) of guidance.  Man must endeavour and strive for the progress and advancement of all of the people.  Man must be self-sacrificing in serving the Cause of God and spreading the fragrances of God.  Man must not think of himself, he must think of others."
Again 'Abdu'l-Bahá sat, for about two hours, on the balcony of the hotel, speaking to the visitors on various subjects.  The mayor, the judge and other eminent officials of Tiberias were present, and all were exhilarated by his utterances.  Then, as the lake reflected the wonder of the rising moon and the stars-the beauty of the creator-'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to the friends:  "His Holiness Christ, used to walk most of the nights when in the region of this lake.  He was all alone, thinking of the illumination of the world of humanity.  He did not rest for one moment.  He was not at liberty for even one day.  He spent his days as a wanderer, and was shelterless in these deserts and mountains.  The place where he called the disciples to enter the Kingdom of God is in this region.  They were engaged in fishing.  His Holiness Christ, used to walk alone on the shore.  When he saw the signs of acceptance in their faces, he said, 'Come, so that I may make you the fishers of men', and they at once left everything and followed that Light personified!
"God be exalted!  Always, in the beginning of the Cause, common souls, who in the estimation of the people, were of no importance whatever, have advanced to the divine Manifestation.  For example, these fishermen believed in His Holiness Christ.  In the Qur'án it is revealed that the ignorant of the people would say to His Holiness the Messenger (Muhammad), 'None have followed thee except the most degraded of the people; the learned sages, the nobles and the high class count thee as a fool.'  However, it cannot be said of this Cause, for everyone testifies that all of the learned philosophers and nobles of every nation were humble in the presence of the Blessed Beauty, and great numbers of these became believers."
__________
14 June 1914.
The following tablet was revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá for one of the friends who had lost his daughter:  "Beloved, the horrible and awful news of the departure of the daughter of that beloved became the cause of intense grief, because, undoubtedly, separation has a bitter taste; yet the people of the effulgences are happy by the favours of the Beloved of the Horizons, because the Lord of the Covenant has ordained eternal union, and everlasting unity for His friends.  Therefore, this temporary separation, although it causes sorrow, yet, the infinite nearness and the heavenly union is the comfort for the hearts of the afflicted; although at present we are separated, confused, in anguish and helpless, yet, in the end, we will be His companions, His associates, joining in His melodious song and under His kind shelter.  Therefore, thou shouldst not be grieved and saddened; comfort thyself with the infinite favour and the glad tidings of the heavenly life."
'Abdu'l-Bahá listened, for about two hours, to the reading of letters received
page 115
from America, and other parts of the world.  It was mentioned that three ministers happily invited the Bahá'ís to speak and teach in their churches, concerning which 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"Such incidents are so frequent now that they have lost their significance.  There was a time when, if one heard a word of commendation from a minister, he was astonished.  But now they come and invite the friends (Bahá'ís).  This is only through the confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá."
__________
15 June 1914.
News of the marriage of Núrí, son of Akkash Effendi, who lives in Aintab, Asia Minor, was received, and the following tablet was revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "My illumined Núrí!  According to what is mentioned, with abundant joy through the bounty of the One whose favours are concealed, a wedding was celebrated in the utmost splendour; happiness and rejoicing were obtained.  Although, outwardly, I was not present at that reception, yet with heart and soul I was in the companionship of that assembly, with equal pleasure and cheerfulness I was with the zealous friends.  Therefore, I present congratulations and felicitations on the occurrence of such a blessed marriage.  From the Ancient, the Living, my hope is that a happy family may be established, so that through ages and centuries it may become the cause of spreading the Light."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then revealed the following tablet to an American believer regarding the care of the orphans:  "In this blessed Cause, the matter of the orphans has a great importance.  The orphans must be greatly cherished, trained, taught and educated, especially in the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  As much as possible, every orphan must be taught.  I ask God that thou mayst become a kind father and mother to the orphan children.  With the fragrances of
page 116
the Holy Spirit thou may'st revive them so that they may reach maturity and that every one may become the real servant of the world of humanity, nay, rather, an illumined candle."
In the evening, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to the believers regarding Persia, as follows:  "The Cause appeared in Persia.  The blood of so many martyrs was shed in Persia that, unquestionably, signs will appear.  The Persians, for the safety and progress of the nation, have experimented during late years in several forms of government.  First, independence and despotism, which resulted in destruction and oppression; then the constitution was established, the only effect of which was devastation and helplessness.  The next step was to organize parties such as democrat, union and others; from these, too, there were no results.  The constitution is very good, but the Persians did not realize any fruit thereof.  Now, there is no way left to save Persia except through this Revelation.  This is a Cause that has set all of the horizons in motion, and has made all humble.  This Cause will be the means of progress, elevation and education of Persia.  If from the beginning when His Holiness the Supreme (the Báb) appeared, Hájí Mírzá Áqásí (the prime minister of Persia, who caused the martyrdom of the Báb, and in the Orient is known as Dajjál, meaning anti-Christ or false Christ) and others, had not resisted this Cause, Persia would now have been the first country in the world and distinguished in every way."
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Haifa
16 June 1914.
After staying a period of six weeks in Tiberias and other towns, 'Abdu'l-Bahá decided to return to Haifa.  For a few moments he spoke to the friends about the Persian government:  "In the laws of God the constitutional government is the law, but the electors of the people must abide by the conditions of the constitution; if they do not, destruction and misery will be more prevalent than before.  We advised them according to our knowledge, but they did not listen or accept.  In Europe I have met many chiefs, princes and ministers, advised them extensively and have said to them all that should be said."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then boarded the train for Haifa.  There were some military officers in his stateroom.  When they learned who he was, they showed him the greatest consideration all the way through.  As the train reached Haifa, all of the believers were waiting in the station with longing and yearning, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá's arrival was like unto the return of the soul to the body!
In the evening the friends gathered in the blessed home and 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave them the following talk:  "I went to Tiberias; this time my going was very long.  Tiberias is an isolated spot.  It is a quiet place; there is not a noise or voice; it is as though man finds a dwelling in the desert.  It is situated in a byway, the place where His Holiness Christ-May my soul be a sacrifice to him!-was constantly travelling and moving.  When man walks there, he thinks of those days when His Holiness Christ, was wont to walk there and teach the disciples.  The place where he first proclaimed his Cause is near Tiberias, and is known as "the hill of home'.  There was a temple built where His Holiness Christ, entered and spoke.  It is greatly esteemed by the Christians.  During the days of the Crusaders it was destroyed, but its foundation remains, and it is a holy place.  The effect of the word of Truth is so wonderful, but the Jews there are fanatical, selfish and filled with self-pride.  The American Jews are very intelligent people.  They listened to what-
page 117
ever was said to them, but these Jews never listened.  One day I related the talk that I delivered in the synagogue of the Jews in America to a Rabbi in Tiberias.  When I looked into his face, I saw no sign of intelligence.  What a difference among the souls who comprehend and those who are utterly deprived of the bestowals of God!"
His honour Dr Ardashír, one of the Zoroastrian Bahá'ís of India, went to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá before leaving the Orient for America.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "Perchance, God willing, a new spirituality, a beautiful fragrance, zeal and stirring enthusiasm may become manifest in India.  India is exceedingly ready, but the appearance of these is dependent upon the attraction and the enkindlement of the friends.  In this day, the confirmation of God will reach everyone who arises to teach.  Many instances of this are happening continuously.  Indeed, the confirmation surrounding him will amaze man himself.
"The light of the love of God must be ignited in the hearts of the children, during their childhood.  When a child is reared in the shadow of divine education, truth is mentioned to him day by day.  The Blessed Beauty, the teachings, the history of this Cause and of the divine prophets are taught him and then faith finds its place in his heart.  Therefore, from this moment you must bring your brother under the system of the divine education.  Speak to him of the love and the knowledge of God.  Should a child be left without training and remain in his original state, he becomes like unto an animal and is a slave of nature."
'Abdu'l-Bahá, welcoming Sháhu'lláh Khán, who came from Afghanistan, said, "In ancient history, they have praised and lauded the city of Samarqand.  It is the city of Prince Tímúr.  But at present, it is entirely changed and transformed. ...  This blessed Cause has such power and penetration that it will spread into all parts of the world.  I am hopeful that in Afghanistan it will be of great effect.  The gentlemen of Afghanistan are active.  They are warm blooded.  In their blood, there is power and heat.  Therefore, you see that although the Muslim governments are in a state of chaos, Afghanistan is protecting itself as much as possible."
When someone mentioned the name of the late Hájí Mírzá Hasan Khurásání of Cairo, Egypt, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "In justice to him, he served the Cause very much.  He helped the friends everywhere.  He had zeal and enthusiasm.  He assisted everybody."
On the subject of consultation, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "Man must consult with a trustworthy and wise person.  His Holiness the Messenger (Muhammad) says, 'The consulted is trusted'.  Therefore, if man does not consult with a trustworthy, wise person, his own mind becomes confused.  When man's thoughts are scattered, he falls into many troubles.  But if he concentrates on one point, then he is relieved on all sides."
__________
17 June 1914.
A group of believers were strolling in the blessed garden.  'Abdu'l-Bahá sent for them and when they came, he seated Mullá Abú Tálib, who was very advanced in years, in a chair close to him and said:  "Father, how good it is for a man to be bent, to have bedimmed eyes and decrepit bones in the divine Cause."  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá turned his face toward Áqá Ghulámu'lláh Ahmadúff, formerly from the city of Meelan, Russia, and said, "The friends in Meelan were self-sacrificing from the beginning of the Cause.  They have always endured calamities and hardships in the divine path.  They were always firm and steadfast.  They were always the cause of the glory of the Cause of God.  Never has anything that might cause harm in the Cause, appeared from them."  After
page 118
a while, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "We are continually working hard, writing and writing, encouraging and urging so that the fire of the love of God may be ignited in the hearts.  Then suddenly you see one come and put it out."
On the subject of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Endeavour ye night and day that the banner of the Covenant may wave as it should, in those regions.  For in this day, the souls reverberate by the power of the Covenant.  They become enlivened by the spirit of the Covenant.  They move by the call of the Covenant, otherwise they become depressed and inactive as a body without a soul, a lamp without a light."
__________
18 June 1914.
The following is a tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá today, to the friends in Boston:
"If the tablets of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) such as the Hidden Words, Ishráqát, Tajallíyát, Glad Tidings, Tarázát and the Words are read and one of the divine exhortations lived up to[,] man attains to the degree of perfection.  He becomes the centre of merciful susceptibilities, the source of human perfection and the lights of the Kingdom will shine from his face and character."
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá walked in his room and looking from the window, said, "During the days of youth, man sees the pictures of life in all things wherever he looks, but, as his age advances, he sees the picture of death in everything and that all things have an end.  When he looks at the trees he sees that in the end they will dry up.  When he looks at the buildings, he sees that finally they too, will be destroyed.  If he sees a thickly populated place, he remembers that a time will come when it will be devastated.  Briefly, all things inform man of an end."
Afterwards, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke of the king-of-the-martyrs.  He praised him very much and said, "During the life-time of the king-of-the-martyrs, the heart of the Blessed Beauty was in tranquillity for Isfahán (a city in Persia)."  Then he related a story, which briefly was this, "One day, one of the opposers hit a dog with a stone, cursed him and called him names, hoping that by so doing, he might bring sorrow to the heart of the king-of-the-martyrs.  'Write down in thy memorandum that half a mann (mann, a Persian weight, is seven and one-quarter pounds) must be sent daily to this dog, because he was hit by a stone and cursed for our sake,' commanded the king-of-the-martyrs to his servant.  These are the souls who 'do not speak before He speaks and who do according to His commands.'"
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá summoned the pilgrims and spoke in detail about assemblies and gatherings in London and Paris.  He said:  "There was a great commotion in the souls upon hearing my addresses.  A seed was sown.  God shall make it grow.  Undoubtedly, He will make it grow.  After 300 years, the seed that was sown by the disciples (of Christ) brought forth its fruit.  But, in this day the seeds that the friends of God plant, grow in a short time.  This is because of the power of the Cause."
That afternoon, a feast was held at the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá for the marriage of Mírzá Munír Zayn with 'Ismat, daughter of Ibráhím Mashhadí Fattáh.  These were all of the old believers in 'Akká.  'Abdu'l-Bahá came in and after sitting in silence for a few minutes, he said:  "It is one month and a half since I was in the assembly of the friends.  Now, things are so arranged that I find myself again in the gathering of the friends.  Praise be to God!  In this day a double happiness is obtained for the friends of God.  The first is that this meeting is held near the Supreme Threshold (at the tomb of the Báb) at the foot of Mt. Carmel, in the utmost joy and fragrance.  Such a gathering, at such a place, in the neighbourhood of the Supreme
page 119
Threshold is a great bounty and the cause of great joy.  Our hope is this, that from the favours of the Blessed Beauty, we may walk in His path and become confirmed in whatever the duty of servitude in the Holy Threshold might be.  Although it is impossible for us to arise in servitude as we should-as the poet says, 'How can I raise my head for shame that I cannot serve the Beloved in a fitting manner?'-and although we cannot attain it in full degree, yet we should strive.  Our hope is this, that although the whole ocean fail to confirm us, we may, through His confirmation, assistance, favour and bounty, be confirmed with one drop.  The second joy is this, that this is the wedding of Mírzá Munír.  Praise be to God, this feast was prepared in the utmost joy, under the shadow of the bounties of the Blessed One.  I beg of God that a blessed family may be established which will become hospitable and famous throughout centuries and ages, in servitude to the Holy Threshold.  This is the fruit of existence.  If the fruit of the existence of man is not the servitude of the Divine Threshold, by God-save whom there is no God!-life is death, existence is non-existence, happiness is ennui, joy is sorrow and regret is the end.  If man will only lay his time at His Threshold, then whatsoever is befitting and worthy of this Threshold, will become evident and manifest.  This is the fruit of life.  This is the result of existence.  This is the illumination of the human world.  This is the eternal life.  This is the everlasting exaltation.  This is the heavenly glory."
__________
20 June 1914.
Whenever news of teaching and spreading the Cause comes from various regions to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, he becomes exceedingly happy.  Today, after receiving good news from America, he revealed and sent the following tablet:  "Thy letter was received.  From its contents, it became evident that, Praise be to God! the lights of the Kingdom are spreading and the souls are listening to the Word.  The heedless are being awakened and the blind are seeing.  This news became the cause of happiness.  In this day, the power of the Kingdom is assisting those who are standing forth in service and who are the cause of guiding the people.  A person who is a herald of the Kingdom of Abhá is like unto a lamp and the souls who possess high or lofty ideals are like unto butterflies.  When the light is shining, undoubtedly the butterflies gather around it.  Therefore, as many of ye as can, call ye to the Kingdom of Abhá so that ye may become near to the Threshold of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and so that the heavenly hosts may assist ye.  In this day, the power of the Covenant is the magnetic power in the apex of the horizon.  This is the power that moves the world of humanity.  This is the power that causes the penetration of the words in the hearts.  This is the power that ignites the fire of the love of God.  This is the power that brings joy and cheer to the souls."
When Dr Ardashír was in the holy presence, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said jokingly to Mírzá Haydar 'Alí:  "Dr Ardashír has learned osteopathy very well.  He desires to give you a massage.  Are you willing to have him give you a treatment?  He claims that if a person is feeling ill, he will make him well; the powerless become powerful and the old will become young!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá praised the people of America because they are worshippers of reality.  He said, "They investigate every question.  They do not quarrel and dispute.  They think mostly of the investigation of truth or reality.  America needs teachers who know languages.  If there were severed and attracted souls who know the English language and who were skilled in ethics, great results would have been brought about.  Like-
page 120
wise, the teacher should know how to adjust his speech according to the exigency of the time and place.  Now, if a person goes to Europe and someone asks him, 'What proofs have you concerning the prophethood of His Holiness the Messenger (Muhammad)?' and he replies, 'The Qur'án', none would accept it.  All the regions in the East and in the West are ready, but extraordinary souls who are highly developed in spirituality and refinement, are needed.  If my health were good at present, I would not wait one day longer.  I would go not only to America but to all parts of the world to cry and call out.  Had I been free during the forty years of my imprisonment in 'Akká, I would have travelled to the East, West, North and South of the world.  I would not have kept still for one minute and I would have illumined the horizons with the light of the Sun of Reality.  And then you would have seen what great results had been obtained.
"There were three islands near the equator in the Indian (Pacific) Ocean.  The weather there is very hot.  The number of inhabitants was 4,000,000, all of whom were idolators, worshipping the sun and stars.  In the ninth century of Islám, one blessed soul went there to serve God and God alone.  He was alone and lonely.  They inflicted upon him severe injuries, calamities and persecution, but he never ceased in his efforts until he had converted all the inhabitants of those three islands to Islám.  Now if such souls could be found, in a short time all those regions (America) would become illumined."
The North Shore Review, dated 2 May 1914, reached Haifa and the friends rejoiced in reading the eloquent article on the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár written by the sincere maid-servant of God, Mrs Isabel Fraser.  In the morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke about the wicked náqidín (violators of the Covenant).  He said:  "They go to self-interested strangers.  They show unto them love and friendship; but they do not understand that these souls are the enemies of the Blessed Beauty.  They go and show their love to the one who is an enemy to the Blessed Beauty.  What ignorance!  The Blessed Beauty said the following about such people, 'In every minute the wound of atheism and the arrows of infidelity come to me from them.'  Also, He said, 'O Thou spirit of God, descend and see that my humiliation is more than Thy grandeur.'"
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote the following tablet for a martyr from Ardikán, Persia:
HE IS GOD!
"Verily, those who quaffed the cup of the great martyrdom in the path of God, are favoured from the bounty of Thy Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  They are the ones whose hearts God has chosen for His love.  Their faces are shining with the light of God in the paradise of the rose-garden.  The angels of mercy receive them and announce to them the glad tidings of holy resting places and of the canopy of sincerity in the Kingdom of their generous Lord.  Their enemies will be repulsed and degraded to the lowest of the lowest as thou hast seen others in manifest loss.  Verily, there is in this an example for those who are mindful.  God shall do away with the helpers of the unjust.
"O my Lord, confirm the relatives of these martyrs in serving Thy Cause, elevating Thy Word, spreading Thy Religion, igniting Thy Love in the hearts of Thy servants and guide those who are lost in the wilderness of error.  Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Dear, the Exalted!"
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:11, 27 September 1918
page 121
Talks by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Holy Land (continued)
The following compilation of some of the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá after his return to the Holy Land from America, Europe and Egypt.
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
[Previous sections are in XI:2, pp. 17-19, 23-24; XI:3, pp. 25-31, 34-38; and XI:10, pp. 105-112.]
In the evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke the following to the friends:  "There were blessed souls during the early days of the Cause in the city of Naráq, Persia, such as Hájí Kamálu'd-Dín and his brother Mírzá Mahmúd.  They were the nephews of Hájí Mullá Muhammad Mujtahid (a Muslim high priest).  Although their uncle was very influential and the Mujtahid of Káshán and although he was very bitter in his enmity and hatred, all of his efforts to drive them away from the Cause only increased their faith.
"Hájí Kamálu'd-Dín, a great personage, was severed, trusting and free from all imitations.  He was the nephew of Mullá Ahmad Naráqí and he was respected and esteemed in the city of Naráq.  Immediately after he became a believer, the enemies arose against him until he was compelled to leave Naráq and go to Baghdád.  Here at the edge of the bridge, where pilgrims pass, he opened a grocery store.  He was so severed that he did not even give attention to the pilgrims who were going or coming from Káshán.  He never gave thought to this idea, 'I am the nephew of Mullá Ahmad Naráqí.  I was honoured, respected and dignified.  It is not becoming that these people should see me now in the grocery business.'  Nay, rather he was in the utmost joy.  Later on the members of his household became very successful.
"When he heard that the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) had gone from Baghdád to Kázimayn, although the distance was great, he travelled it on foot because he could not afford to pay the route-fare of a half 'Abbásí (about half a cent).  But his face was aglow with joy and happiness.  He was indeed of the essence of existence.  Such souls possess freedom and live in another world and condition.  Their lives were not even for a moment in safety.  Yet they lived in loving assurance.  That is, although they expected any minute to be killed, they never thought of any fear.  The majority of the friends in those days were waiting for martyrdom.  They never thought of rest.  They waited anxiously for the day when they could clasp the intoxicating cup of the wine of great martyrdom and for the hour when they would step forth into the arena of sacrifice, to lay their lives on the altar of love."
__________
21 June 1914.
The students of Beirut College, some of whom were graduates of the medical college and some from the high school, arrived in Haifa to spend their
page 122
vacation.  The next morning they went to the garden and met 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  With joy and praise he said to them:  "The Bahá'í students in Beirut have so conducted themselves, both within and without the college, that even the Protestants and members of the faculty have testified to their superiority.  He who is possessed of good behaviour is always happy, always at ease and every soul becomes attracted to him.  There is nothing better than good conduct.  A few years ago some young men from 'Akká entered Beirut College and so conducted themselves that everyone complained of them.  They accomplished nothing and were finally expelled."
This same afternoon there was a wedding feast for Isfandíyár, a Zoroastrian believer from Bombay, India, and the daughter of Jamshíd, the gardener of Firdús (the Garden of Paradise in 'Akká).  In the afternoon there was a big meeting at which two American ladies were present.  'Abdu'l-Bahá told of some of the difficulties encountered in the early days, speaking thus:  "I remember when I was a child in Tihrán, that if two of the friends desired to meet they had to do so at midnight.  It was impossible to see one another in daylight.  Even if they accidentally met on the street, they dared show no sign of recognition.  They saw each other only under the cover of night, and then always with the greatest precaution in going to one another's house.  They guarded very carefully against being observed by anyone.  In those days, the people of Persia considered the Cause of God entirely wiped out, and that all of the Bahá'ís had been killed and their homes destroyed.  But, today, in spite of the deniers, and the opposers, under the shadow of the favours and bounties of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) in the neighbourhood of the Supreme Threshold, at the foot of Mt. Carmel, such gatherings and meetings are being held, blessed verses are being chanted, engagements and weddings are being celebrated, and happiness and pleasure is abounding among the believers.  Praise be to God, this is a gathering of utmost spirituality, the hearts are turning to the Blessed Beauty; the souls are rejoicing in the glad tidings of God.  His mention is their only thought.  He their only sign.  All of the friends are His servants.  What a great bounty!  Such a gathering, such a place at such a time was inconceivable to any of those in the early days."
In describing the imprisonment of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh), 'Abdu'l-Bahá added:  "What days were those!  They were days of great tests, self-sacrifice, absolute spirituality, severance, attraction and enkindlement.  The physical conditions were insignificant.  The friends were filled with the Spirit.  They did not seem to be of this world, although they walked upon the earth, they were in the Supreme Concourse.  They possessed another world.  They were submerged in the ocean of severance.  Souls could not be more attracted or enkindled than these.  I hope that, God willing, this wedding will be happy and blessed through the infinite blessings of the Kingdom of Abhá.  May they be under the protection of the Blessed Beauty.  May the heavenly blessing descend upon them, the light of the Kingdom shine upon them and may they establish a new spiritual home.  This is my hope."
__________
23 June 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá spent the entire day in writing about fifteen tablets to Persia and America, receiving great numbers of friends and visitors.  The military commanders of Damascus and Jerusalem came, too, and invited him to the old Holy City, Jerusalem.  His answer to them was, "Inshá'lláh" ("If God is willing").
__________
24 June 1914.
After the departure of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh), 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed and proved to the Bahá'ís throughout the world that teaching the
page 123
Cause of God is the greatest of all services.  Therefore, whenever he hears of the splendid work achieved by the active teachers his face radiates with eternal happiness, and the signs of perfect joy become manifest in his bearing.  The following tablet revealed by him that day illustrates this fact:
"Thy letter was received.  Praise be to God, it contained the glad tidings of the firmness and uprightness of the friends of God.  Because all are self-sacrificing in the field of teaching, have unloosened their tongues in the glorification of the Beloved of the horizons, have become the cause of leading the misguided people, they have throbbing hearts and singing souls.  Spiritual happiness was obtained by such joyful news.  Thanks be to God, the friends in _____ have become free from separation, all have become harmoniously united, and are sacrificing their souls in the path of the Blessed Beauty.  This is the greatest attribute of the human world; this is the ultimate bestowal of the Merciful One; this is the magnet of assistance and protection of His Holiness, The Single; this is the attracting force of the reinforcement from the Kingdom of Majesty.  Therefore, my hope is that, day by day, the light of guidance may flood the world, and the east and the west of Persia may become illumined and enlightened."
__________
25 June 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following advice to the friends who visited him in the morning:  "If the friends of God listen to my first word, they will find the success of this and of the next world therein.  But there are some who prefer their own thoughts above mine, and when they fall they beg me to save them.  Progress and prosperity are in the first word.  For example, should I say to so and so, 'Go thou to America', and should he reply, 'I beg to remain a few days more', I give him permission to do as he wishes.  But this is not my thought; it is his thought.  All of the opinions in the world are useless for the believers.  I am the one whose heart burns for them and who sympathizes with them.  I wish for them absolute good.  I desire for them ideal advancement."
Then he turned to a young Bahá'í student who recently arrived from Egypt, where he had been studying, and said, "Thou shouldst strive day and night, so that the fire of the love of God may become more enkindled in thy heart, day by day thy servitude to the Holy Threshold become more increased, day by day thy attachment to the Kingdom of God become stronger.  If thou dost this thou shalt obtain great results from all of the studies; otherwise thou shalt not see any benefit."
__________
26 June 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following talk to the Persian believers:  "Most of the Persian 'ulamá (clergymen) became the cause of destruction and the casting of Persia to the winds.  The 'ulamá of every sect must act in accordance with the requirements of religion, the first of which is that they must believe in God, turn to God and be severed from all else save God.  Such 'ulamá are the illumined lamps of guidance and the stars of the heaven of mercy.  But when some 'ulamá enter a school their aim is leadership, to obtain fame, to gather luxuries and worldly possessions.  They are like the disease, influenza,1 that attacks man with helplessness and heaviness, during sleep, as though a mountain had fallen upon him and he was unable to move.  Now, these learned men are similar to the disease that is attacking the body of the people.  The requirements for the 'ulamá are mentioned in the traditions.  It is said by the prophet Muhammad, 'Let the public follow whomsoever of the learned controls himself, protects his religion, opposes his desire and obeys the command of his Lord'; that means the
page 124
learned who controls himself from corruption and negligence, opposes his own desire and passion, protects religion and the divine commands, fulfils the requirements.'  The souls must follow the judgement of such an one regarding laws and by-laws.  Shaykh Murtidá, indeed, was strictly religious.  Once at noontime prayer, a group of people were praying in the mosque at Kázimayn, under the leadership of ákhúnds (Muslim priests).  At such a time Shaykh Murtidá arrived.  He spread his cloak in the front hall and began to pray.  Suddenly, thousands of the people left the ákhúnds and swept from all directions, standing in rows to pray under the leadership of Shaykh Murtidá.  He had to employ seven muezzins (men who call the people to prayer from the tower of the mosque).  He was trusted and strongly religious.  Indeed, he used to work with honesty.  No matter how much the people questioned about this Revelation, he answered according to his belief, 'I have not yet investigated this Cause.  Go and investigate for yourselves.'  The Shaykh never said any unsuitable word.  On one occasion the 'ulamá united with the Persian consul in Baghdád and planned sedition.  They sent for all of the 'ulamá of Karbilá and Najaf, also Shaykh Murtidá, perhaps he, too, would come to Baghdád.  It happened that while on the road he fell and dislocated his shoulder.  Although the leaders persisted in asking his opinion about the Cause, his only reply was, 'I do not think that it is my duty to interfere in this matter.'
"During those thrilling times, the Blessed Beauty, Bahá'u'lláh, never changed his attitude.  Every day, as usual, he went to the bank of the Tigris river, accompanied only by Áqá Mírzá Muhammad Qulí.  No matter how much the friends tried to interfere, telling him that the multitudes were rising against him, he paid no attention.  One day when Bahá'u'lláh was walking in the reception room, two of the hypocrites who, at heart, were with the 'ulamá, but who claimed to be sincere, went into the blessed presence.  A number of the friends were there to whom Bahá'u'lláh said:  'All of the 'ulamá are urging others from Najaf and Karbilá to wage a holy war upon us.'  Then, facing the two hypocrites, he said, 'By God!  There is no God but Him, I do not need to send more than two persons to chase them to Kázimayn!'  Shaykh Murtidá sent the following statement:  'I did not know anything about the aims of these people; I pray in your behalf.'  He was such a religious man, he never gathered luxuries, enormous funds were sent him from India,
page 125
but it was all spent on the poor; nothing was left after his death.  How wonderful, indeed, were those days in Baghdád!  Every one of the friends, through the favour and bounty of the Blessed Beauty, was in the utmost firmness and uprightness.  How radiant were their faces!  How merciful were their hearts!  How severed and attracted they were!"
__________
27 June 1914.
'Abdu'l-Bahá sent for an illumined young man, named Mírzá Habíbu'lláh who was one of the visitors from Turkistán, Russia, serving for about nine months in the house of the pilgrims.  Upon his appearance, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the young man permission to return to Merv and 'Ishqábád, with the following words of farewell:  "Indeed, thou hast served all this time with thy heart and soul.  Now, too, wherever thou may'st be thou shalt serve the Cause.  The aim is to serve and to obtain the divine good pleasure, not a place or station.  Praise be to God!  Thou are confirmed and I am also pleased with thee."
In the afternoon, 'Abdu'l-Bahá sent for the pilgrims.  He talked to them concerning the spies of Sultán 'Abdu'l-Hamíd, as follows:  "The Sultán sent his spies in different guise in order that they might investigate.  It was very strange.  Although we were in prison, yet he was still troubled.  Each time he placed a different guard and spy. ...  In past cycles the argument was complete, but in this Cause it is perfect.  In the cycle of the Blessed Beauty, the events themselves are irrefutable proofs and complete arguments.  For example, notwithstanding the hate and enmity of the Sháh of Persia and the Sultán of Turkey, Násiri'd-Dín and 'Abdu'l-Hamíd, exile and severe imprisonment, yet the Blessed Beauty elevated his Cause.  This may be likened to a blessed bird that remains protected even under the claws of a thousand birds of prey, or the safety of a lamb among a hundred-thousand wolves.  Although Bahá'u'lláh was physically a prisoner, yet all were humble and meek at the Most Holy Threshold, with a reverence indescribable."
The following is a tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to friends in Paris, France:
"O ye friends of God and maid-servants of the Merciful!  The congratulations for the anniversary of the declaration of His Holiness, the beauty of the First Point, the Báb, was received.  I became exceedingly happy that such a great celebration occurred in Paris.  All of the souls are either occupied in pleasure, play, or united in gathering worldly luxuries, and intoxicated with the melody of the world of nature.  But the friends of God have held a heavenly feast and celebrated the anniversary of the appearance of the Dawn of Guidance, the Báb.  How much this is the cause of happiness!  You became engaged in the commemoration of God, sang the verses of singleness and praised the Sun of Reality with the anthem of the merciful Kingdom.  Unquestionably, in the future, feasts will be held uninterruptedly and such a wonderful melody shall arise from Paris as to astonish other countries."
In these days, Mr C. Mason Remey and Mr George Latimer visited Paris, Germany and Holland.  They attracted many people in Europe and strengthened the souls in the great Covenant.
After revealing over twenty-five tablets, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following talk on teaching:  "In his days, the Blessed Beauty encouraged everyone whom he favoured to teach.  These were indications of his blessed bestowals.  It was irrefutable evidence that whomsoever he encouraged to teach, either verbally or by writing, was surrounded by the glances of his bounty.  The blessed tablets always were revealed in the names of the teachers.  The mention of those who arose to teach with all their power, caused his blessed face to gleam with smiles.  The appearance of the signs of happiness at the mention of a name was
page 126
the greatest proof of his favour.  He used to say, 'Teachers are the Isráfíls (Angels of Life) of God, they breathe the Spirit of Life to the people.  One day, Bahá'u'lláh showed such extreme kindness to the teachers that, although I was in the prison, I decided that I, too, might, perhaps, become confirmed in teaching.  Thus I entertained the thought of going to Káshghar,1 because, until then, no teacher had been sent there.  I wanted to go singly and alone, without any burden.  The only thing that I prepared was a small grip containing some of the blessed tablets, papers and pen.  When I took my passport, the late muftí (lawyer who has religious jurisdiction) became my guarantor.  I was about to begin my journey when the Mútasarif (mayor) Ibráhím Páshá announced that he would not be impolite or prevent my departure, but according to his responsibility and the discharging of his duty, he would be obliged to send a telegram to Constantinople as soon as I was aboard the boat.  The meaning was, that we shall prevent you, but the message was nicely phrased.  Therefore, I did not go.
"The purpose is this, that when I permit the pilgrims to return, they may go and teach.  It is evident that to remain here one minute is equal to a thousand years elsewhere, but teaching is greater.  Whosoever is confirmed in teaching the Cause of God is the servant of the Holy Threshold and he is here also.  There is no importance attached to the duration of time here.  How many souls had the privilege of paying only three visits during the blessed days of Bahá'u'lláh, yet it seems that they are always present at the Most Holy Threshold.  They received infinite bounty with the honour of one or two visits, and how many souls came and remained for a long time, yet returned as they came, the signs of their honour of visit to the Most Holy Threshold could not, in any way, be found in their faces.  Some visit but once and become new souls.
"During the last days in Adrianople, Áqá Djamal2 and Áqá Mírzá 'Abdu'-r-Rahím-i-Burújirdí, twice came to the Most Holy Threshold.  After their first visit Bahá'u'lláh said:  'When Áqá Mírzá 'Abdu'r-Rahím entered he was a person, when he left he was transformed.'
"To visit the blessed tomb of Bahá'u'lláh, which is the sacred place of the Supreme Concourse, and the Sublime Threshold, the tomb of the Báb, is the greatest hope of the near ones, but in this day teaching and service in the Cause of God are greater and more important than all.  Otherwise, it is my wish to have the friends always with me.
"Let all of your thoughts be thus:  To render a service to the Glorious Abhá Threshold, and be utterly selfless.  This is the great bestowal!  By God!-There is no God but Him!-should men rule the earth for a thousand years, with utmost power, it would not be equal to one moment of servitude at the Holy Threshold, because that sovereignty of a thousand years will perish and be effaced, while servitude in this Cause, though of only one moment's duration, is eternal!"
__________
28 June 1914.
Mírzá 'Alí Akbar Nakhjavání gave a banquet feast for all of the believers in the blessed home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  To the western friends he is known as Mírzá 'Alí Akbar.  After having the honour of
page 127
being in the service of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America, Europe and the Holy Land, he was permitted to return to his home in Russia, accompanied by his bride, Fátimah Khánum, sister of Zynat Khánum.3  On the occasion of the above mentioned feast, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following talk:
"During all the blessed days of Bahá'u'lláh, my hope always was that a day would come, perhaps, God willing, when I might travel in a certain direction and, in proportion to my ability, make my utmost effort, as one in the last great struggle of death.  But on account of our incarceration, as prisoners, all of that time passed with anguish-because the fruit of existence is, that spiritual motion or activity be obtained from man; that is, he should be moving and not still, flying and not resting.  In all of the contingent beings, lack of motion is the cause of death, and motion is the cause of life.  At that time I was very disheartened and depressed because I found myself unconfirmed and unassisted in service to the Holy Threshold-that is, hindered by the prison; but because I considered that hindrance was in the blessed path, therefore comfort could be obtained.
"When the ascension of Bahá'u'lláh occurred, the severity of its effect and anguish was to such a degree that it cannot be described.  That effect and anguish overcame all other feelings.  It left in me no life, will or thought.  For a long time I was in such a state of sorrow.  Afterward, the fire of dissension became ablaze. (This refers to the náqidín or violators of the Covenant.)  All of you know that this, too, hindered me.  Later, it was considered that the Cause of God had fallen into great danger.  Notwithstanding this I intended to travel, but the government interfered.  All of the enemies of the Blessed Beauty attacked from all regions.  They believed that the ascension of Bahá'u'lláh was an opportunity for them, and in the utmost power they attacked.  In every corner there was an armed enemy.  Hatred and fighting were in evidence, especially among the Yahyáyís (Azalis), who had been always hiding in the holes, without a name, a sign, a voice or calling, and who now became hopeful because of the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, that perhaps they might corrupt the Blessed Cause.  They arose with utmost power, especially when the news of dissension (violation) was received.  Also, the 'ulamá and mujtahids (Muslim priests) believed that it was their opportunity and they began to attack.  Beside these, the government gave us trouble.  Other very hard problems came in the midst, such as the tragedy of Yazd (this refers to the martyrdom of more than 150 of the Bahá'ís in the city of Yazd in Persia).  Indeed, on account of that incident my bones collapsed.  Although I did not speak a word, yet night and day I did not have rest.
"It is quite evident what we suffered in those days.  All of these hindrances became the cause of my disinclination to travel.  When freedom was proclaimed (this refers to the freedom of the Turkish Empire from the obsolete monarchy of Sultán 'Abdu'l-Hamíd to the present constitutional government) and exile and prison were over, I thought the time had come to travel, no matter what might happen.  Immediately, though I was ill, without the knowledge of any soul, I took the boat and went away, saying, 'In the Name of God, who moves and stops the ship!'
"The known people of discord (náqidín and enemies) in 'Akká circulated the report that I had run away, that I feared the Society of Union and Progress, that I was a traitor-I take refuge in God!-and fearfully, chose to escape.  God be exalted!  In the time of 'Abdu'l-Hamíd the enemies of 'Abdu'l-Bahá constantly wrote reports that I was
page 128
in perfect accord with the lovers of liberty, that I had communicated with them and was working against the despotic government.  But when liberty was proclaimed they changed the issue and arose with a different calumny:  Thus in their report they have written that 'Abdu'l-Bahá writes in his letters that 'Abdu'l-Hamíd was oppressed, and says the same thing of the Sultán of Persia; that he encourages and urges the friends to take refuge among the Russians and the British.  God be exalted!  'Abdu'l-Hamíd imprisoned the Blessed Beauty for twenty-five years.  He imprisoned me during all of his reign ('Abdu'l-Hamíd succeeded to the throne of the Turkish Empire in 1876 and was deposed in 1908).  The Blessed Beauty in the Book of Aqdas, clearly stated concerning him that he was an oppressor king, in these words, 'O thou point (Constantinople) situated between the two seas (the Black and Marmara seas), verily, the throne of oppression is set on thee.'
"The Society of Union and Progress became the cause of my liberation.  With all of this, how could I say that 'Abdu'l-Hamíd was oppressed?  The truth is that the lovers of liberty became the cause of safety to thousands of souls.  Problems of this kind arose because my intention was that, perhaps, God willing, I might become confirmed in service to the Holy Threshold.  I did not pay any attention to those reports.  I went to Europe and America, and travelled in all of the cities.  Through the assistance and bounty of the Blessed Beauty, the call to the Kingdom of Abhá was heralded, and the teachings publicly given.  The blessed Cause was proclaimed in temples, churches, meetings and gatherings.  No place was omitted.  Although I was in the utmost weakness, yet the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty were continuous when I addressed the people and turned to the Kingdom of Abhá.  I often spoke for one or two hours without ceasing.  Although all of us are like particles, the light of the Blessed Beauty is like unto the rays of the sun.  Every particle that falls in sunshine, becomes radiant and grows.  Our growth is like the growth of the particles in sunshine.  The purpose is that the bounty of the Blessed Beauty is so extensive as to be indescribable."
Then, after reciting a beautiful poem of love for Bahá'u'lláh, 'Abdu'l-Bahá continued:
"The breaths of the blessed confirmations were so effective that they melted the hearts and caused the souls to rejoice in the divine glad tidings.  On our own part, it was only an activity similar to a death struggle.  Thanks be to God!  A seed was planted in the gardens of the hearts that is growing throughout eternity.  Blessed souls became enkindled, attracted and arose to serve until we returned to the Holy Threshold in the utmost joy and happiness.  Thanks be to God!  The friends of God from all regions came to the Holy Threshold and we met and associated with them.  From the light in their faces their hearts are reflected.  Assurance is obtained that these souls are self-sacrificing in the path of the Blessed Beauty.  They have no aim save His good pleasure; they have no thought save spreading His fragrances; in the utmost enkindlement they gathered around the circulating place of the Supreme Concourse; they touched the Thresholds of the Holy Spot (tomb of Bahá'u'lláh) and the Supreme Threshold (the tomb of the Báb) with their heads, and journeyed to their countries.  I am hopeful that from their return, great results and glorious signs may be manifest.  Now that you are going away (referring to Mírzá 'Alí Akbar and others) you must go likewise with divine power, spiritual glad tidings and attractions.


IX:12, 16 October 1918
page 129
Talks by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Holy Land (concluded)
The following compilation of some of the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá after his return to the Holy Land from America, Europe and Egypt.
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
[Previous sections are in XI:2, pp. 17-19, 23-24; XI:3, pp. 25-31, 34-38; XI:10, pp. 105-112; and XI:11, pp. 121-128.]
"While I was away, the people of discord (enemies and náqidín) endeavoured constantly to unite themselves with a group of people here, working secretly with some and openly with others.  After my return they gathered again, and, as in the time of 'Abdu'l-Hamíd, wrote reports and made calumnies and sent them to the Turkish government in Constantinople with the hope that they might cause me to go to prison, to be killed or to be exiled.  This was their aim.
"The purpose is that the friends of God must not regard me.  This Cause is a great Cause; it is the Cause of the Blessed Beauty.  A thousand souls like me come and go; it is the same whether they exist or not.  The importance is in the Blessed Cause.  The friends of God must be firm, growing and steadfast.  It is evident that I was and am constantly in danger, and, moreover, I am not always going to be in this world.  The day is coming when I shall long to be in the neighbourhood of the Great Mercy!
"The friends of God must be in the utmost uprightness; in their sight there must not be any differences, no wavering should occur.  Nay, rather, day by day, their firmness and steadfastness must be increased.  Consider the servants of His Holiness Jesus Christ, when all of them departed from this world after his martyrdom, others greater than they arose in service.  They showed greater power until the light of guidance illumined the horizons.  You, too, must be likewise, and know this as a certainty that the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty will come.  By God!-There is no God but Him!-if today one of the weakest creatures begins to serve the Truth, divine confirmations and assistance will surround him. ...
"May you be under the protection of the Blessed Beauty, confirmed and assisted, living in His holy fragrances, and may every one of you become a holy banner in His path.  The purpose is that you should not look at me, whether I am present or absent, existing or lost.  Be engaged in serving the Cause.  Turn to the Blessed Beauty.  He will make you independent of any soul.  From Him ask reinforcement; be the servants at His door; be supplied from His bestowals; be illumined with His light.  May you be protected, guarded and preserved, and rest assured under His shelter.  Bahá'u'lláh says, 'We shall help whosoever arises to assist My Cause, with a host from the Supreme Concourse and a contingent from the near angels.'  This is the real foundation.  Consider Áqá Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, how much he as-
page 130
sisted the Cause.  In every time and place he was confirmed.  By God!-There is no God but Him!-should man become the king of the East and the West, it would not be a particle of benefit to him.  The result is nothing but loss.  Where is Násiri'd-Dín Sháh?  Where is Muhammad Sháh?  Where is 'Abdu'l-Hamíd?  Where is Bonaparte?  Where is Wilhelm?  No trace, no fruit!  Although these were kings and in the utmost power, their end was manifest loss.  This is what we see clearly, therefore strive that we may be upright in the servitude of the Holy Threshold.  This is eternal glory, this is everlasting bounty.  This is the cause of the illumination of existence of the Kingdom of Abhá!  This is the cause of progress to infinite sublimity!  Upon you be Bahá'u'l-Abhá! (the Glory of God)"
In the morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following advice and encouragement to those in his presence:  "Today, the friends of God are the illumined candles of the world of humanity; unless the candle burns it will not bestow light.  Man must endure if he would obtain treasure.  Unless the friends are self-sacrificing, wonderful signs will not become manifest; unless the seed is planted it will not become a fruitful tree; unless the water flows gardens will not become verdant.  These are the days of service and not the days of self-concealment.  This day is for calling to the Kingdom of God and not for silence.  This is the day of firmness and steadfastness, the day of loyalty, not disloyalty.  The Blessed Beauty, Bahá'u'lláh, was fifty years in hardships and afflictions.  He quaffed from every cup of calamity and suffered every pain.  Then it is evident what the friends should endure and in what manner they should raise the victorious banner of the Cause of God.  Easy living is conducive to coldness, and tranquillity and comfort causes the light to be extinguished.  Every one of the Bahá'ís must be like unto a globe of fire, and as a blaze of light-dispel the darkness of ignorance with the lights of service, adorn the horizon of the world with brilliant stars, become the sweet-voiced nightingales of the Paradise of Abhá and the holy doves of the Supreme Heaven.  Today, the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty are with the soul who utterly forgets himself, constantly investigates his own faults and defects, loosens his tongue in mentioning the good qualities and sublime susceptibilities of others, does not see or hear or speak evil.  Goodness personified shines as a sun and wafts as the morning breeze upon the earth. ...
"We are fond of the light of justice from any horizon, and lovers of the beauty of the rose from any garden.  His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, has admonished the Bahá'ís, in many tablets, that they should not have religious differences and racial or patriotic prejudices, that they must gather under the banner of the world of humanity.  Addressing the world of humanity, Bahá'u'lláh said, 'O, people of the world!  Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch.  Glory is not for the one who loves his country, but for the one who loves the world.'  If thou desirest the gloom of the world of nature to pass away, thou shouldst illumine the candle of guidance, and if thou seekest a ripe harvest then plant thou a pure seed.  If thou wouldst have delicious fruits, plant thou a blessed slip; that is, illumine the heart with the light of the love of God and act according to the exhortations of the Blessed Beauty."
__________
Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the friends in Khurásán, Persia.1
HE IS GOD!
"O fragrances of God, waft with perfume!  O breezes of God, pass with aroma and seek the valley of the Merciful, the assembly of knowledge, the Sa-
page 131
hara of Khurásán!  Become diffused before the friends of God and His faithful ones.  Perfume the nostrils of His chosen ones-those whose faces shone forth, whose stars became brilliant, whose feet stood firm, whose banners unfurled, whose hearts grew strong, whose roots and branches flourished, whose breasts dilated in the day of meeting, and who became loyal to the Covenant of God in the world of eternity.  Then convey thou to the dwellers of those regions and hills, the greetings of thy Lord, the Supreme, and announce to them the glad tidings of the days of God.
"By my Lord!  This is a bounty that was desired in the past centuries by the dawning points of lights and stars, and the recipients of the inspiration of thy Lord, the Dear, the Self-subsisting.  Their eyes were flooded, their tears flowed, their lamentations arose in yearning and longing for it.  May you enjoy this table that has descended from the heaven of the favour of your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate!
"O breezes of longing and fragrances from the flowers of faithfulness!  Stand in the courtyard of the friends, the rose-garden of whose hearts thrived by the flooding clouds of the love of God, and their faces shone with the light of the knowledge of God.  Convey to them my longing, yearning and attachment; declare and announce to them my devotion, affection and fondness in their mention.  Say to them:
"Upon ye be Bahá'u'lláh (The Glory of God) and His peace, His greeting and His praise!  In your faces are His light and His effulgence.  In your hearts are His Spirit and His faithfulness.  In your bosoms are His love and His cure.  O ye friends of the Merciful!  Loosen your tongues in His thanks and praise, for He has confirmed you by the Cause, in the mention of which the Supreme Concourse warbled and the herald of glad tidings proclaimed in the books and tablets.
"Blessed are ye for this great bounty.  Glad tidings be unto ye for this wondrous gift which is the full bestowal of God and the manifest light of God.  May God make ye torches of His mention, centres of His secrets, dawning-points of His lights and rising points of His signs.  Blind are the eyes that do not see the lights or His Bahá (splendour) and are not consoled by witnessing His marvellous signs, in the day of His Manifestation and His brilliant light.  Deaf are the ears that do not hear His call and are not cheered by His wondrous utterances.  Dumb are the tongues that are not loosened in His mention and His praise.  Lost are the hearts that are portionless of His love and devotion.  Cast away are the souls that do not walk in His good pleasure and quench their thirst at the fountain of His knowledge.
"O thou dove of faithfulness!  Speak to the weak if thou findest that difficulties are intensifying, hardships extending, the earth quaking, the mountains shaking, the hurricanes of afflictions encircling, the sea of calamities surging, the winds of suffering blowing and the flood of tests surrounding the contingent beings.  Have beautiful patience in the path of thy Glorious Lord.  Beware!  O servants of the Merciful, lest ye arouse the tumult when the blaze of the fire of trials become intense, and its crackling arises.  Beware of crying and wailing in the path of your Glorious Lord.  When the ocean of ordeals becomes stormy and its affairs become serious by the oppression of the rebellious people (this refers to the enemies, the náqidín), do not consider them in a place free from torment, and do not fear their strength and their numbers.  Verily, their likes passed before them.  Read to them from the book (Qur'án), 'A Certain Army of the People is Fleeing.'  Verily, those in past centuries were much stronger than these, their possessions were greater and their armies mightier.
"Even though, O lambs of God, ye
page 133
are between the claws of ferocious beasts and the nails of the carnivorous of the earth, do not be discouraged of the Spirit of God.  The veil will be removed from the cause of the command of God.  This ray will radiate in the horizons of the cities, the signals of oneness will be elevated, the banners of the signs (verses) of your Glorious Lord will wave upon the firm edifice, the structure of doubts will be shaken, the curtain of darkness will be torn asunder; the morn of proofs will dawn and the kingdoms of earth and heaven will shine with the lights of signs.
"You will see the banners of the sects lowered, and their flags reversed, their faces erased and transfixed, their eyes staring and sunken, their hearts palpitating and failing, their homes empty and vacant, their bodies weak and decayed, and the souls falling into hell!
"By the Life of God!  Verily, in the people of Noah, Lot, Thamúd (one of the first Arabian tribes) the Jews, the Tobbaas of Seba, (ancient kings of Yemen in Hijáz, Arabia), the heroes of Bathá (Mecca), the kaisers of Fayhá (Basra), the Cyruses of Zúrá (Baghdád), and in the fables of the ancient centuries, there is an exhortation to the mindful, and persons of innersight who unfold the end of affairs by the beginning of signs.  Verily, their planets were scattered, their processions have perished, their faces became dusty, their stars darkened, their roots torn up, their seed crushed, their thrones wrecked, their armies routed, their pillars quivered, their edifices in ruins, their palaces forsaken, their backs broken, their tombs collapsed, their faces ugly, their skin chilled, their shelter swept away and their traces effaced.  Look thou at their towns and villages in the desert.  When the might of thy Lord came it made them extinguished, arid and devastated.  No voice or whisper could be heard.  But those who took the neighbourhood of the mercy of thy Lord Abhá (the Most Glorious) as shelter, refuge, asylum and protection, are like the birds who take the twigs of the Sadratu'l-Muntahá (the most distant tree in Paradise, according to the Muslim traditions, no angel or prophet can go beyond the limits of this Tree) as a nest and haunt.  God established them in the earth.  He made them good leaders, caused their signs to be famous and brought them from the horizon of singleness with lights radiating from their faces."
'Abdu'l-Bahá dismisses all pilgrims
The 29 June 1914, was a day of great sorrow in Haifa because 'Abdu'l-Bahá dismissed all of the pilgrims and bade them return to their countries.1  In the morning he spoke to the visitors from 'Ishqábád, Turkistán, Russia:  "Ishqá-
page 134
bád is now a good centre.  In the past, Merv was the centre of Khúrásán, which is such a vast country including the provinces of Afghanistan, Sístán and Balkh.  'Ishqábád also is near Merv.  The Blessed Beauty often spoke of Khúrásán in the tablets, saying that from this country would arise the first mention of God, which amazed the people.  When 'Ishqábád came into existence and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was built, the hope of the Blessed Beauty became manifest, and this, the first temple of the Bahá'í world, has become a shelter and refuge to the friends of God.  They are drawn hither from all directions and when in difficulty they go to 'Ishqábád.  The friends made a tremendous effort to build this great edifice, they strove with heart and soul.  At first it seemed impossible of accomplishment, but, thanks be to God, they were confirmed and assisted.  Now, through this inspiration, the friends in all places are planning to build likewise, when it is possible.  By founding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in the world the wonderful signs of God become manifest and evident.  One must be built in every place, even though it be only a house or one rented room, if necessary, under the earth.
"It is very important to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of God, so that the friends may gather and become engaged in the commemoration of God.  This has great importance.  The confirmations of God will arrive, as to the friends in 'Ishqábád.  It has dear young men, also old important souls.  His honour Afnán (cousin of the Báb) and Áqá Mírzá Mahmúd (son of Afnán) are there.  My heart is exceedingly attached to them.  I love Áqá Mírzá 'Abdu'l-Karím very much.  He served constantly.  His illness has a wisdom, later it will be manifest.  I am hopeful that the districts of Turkistán, Russia, will become illumined, the cry of 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá! (O thou Glorious of the Most Glorious!) will reach the Supreme Zone, and the melody of 'Yá-Rabbu'l-Álá!' (O thou the Most Exalted Lord!)1 will be carried to all horizons.  The school of 'Ishqábád has great importance.  You who are going there, strive that it may become orderly, so that the children may progress.  May they reach such a degree in knowledge and sciences that the fame of this school may reach to the horizons.  Great effort is necessary to accomplish this.  Convey my greeting to every friend of God and become an evident book to everyone."
In the afternoon 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following talk:
"This is the day of farewell and the time of leave-taking is very hard.  The Arabian poet says, 'The days of my union with the beloved were so few that the greeting was the farewell.'  Indeed, I am deeply grieved, but I do not say good-bye to you because there is a complete connection among the hearts, and among the souls there is unity and agreement.  We never have a separation from one another.  This nearness and remoteness concerns the world of bodies.  In the world of spirits and souls there is union, never separation.  The heart feels the union.  The eye sees and carries the sight to the heart which becomes affected.  When the heart is engaged with the friends there is no separation, especially if you go in service to the Cause of God.  When a soldier leaves headquarters to battle and to conquer, though far away in person, his remoteness is conducive to the protection of the country.  He cannot receive the glances of favour of the king, yet he is nearer and dearer than the soldier who dwells at headquarters.
"Just so the friends of God who go to far regions to serve the Cause are always holy friends and receive the manifestations of the favours of God.  There is a special bounty from the Blessed Beauty surrounding them.  Convey my greetings and longings to all of the friends.  I am in the utmost longing and have the desire of meeting every one of them.  I am engaged in thinking of ev-
page 135
ery one.  From the Blessed Beauty, I seek confirmation and assistance that all may be protected in His Kingdom, and under the shadow of His bounty.  May He gather them and shelter them in His shelter, and in the assembly of splendour submerge them in the sea of light."
Thus all of the visitors returned to their own countries.  From this it is evident that 'Abdu'l-Bahá knows that which no one knows.  Undoubtedly, he knew that the world war was nearing, therefore he dismissed the people.
__________
30 June 1914.
In the morning a young German from Stuttgart arrived (see Star of the West, VII:3, p. 202), and in the evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá made the following statement:  "When I leave the world I want my heart to be assured that the Blessed Beauty has self-sacrificing servants who, in the utmost reverence, arose to serve the Cause of God.  This is the cause of quieting my agitated heart."
__________
1 July 1914, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went from Haifa to 'Akká.
__________
2 July 1914.
Today, 'Abdu'l-Bahá revealed the following tablet to a philosopher in India:
HE IS GOD!
"O thou lover of reality!  His Highness, the Merciful, has manifested love and harmony to the world of humanity, so that all of the individuals may find a complete connection with each other and the lights of the Oneness of God may appear in the human world.  For this He sent the Holy Manifestations; revealed the heavenly books; established the divine religions, so that these holy souls, these revealed books, and these divine religions may become the cause of unity, agreement, harmony and love in the world of humanity.  When we consider the reality of divine religions, we see that reality is one because all of the divine religions are reality, and reality does not accept multiplicity or division.  Alas, that the foundation of reality has disappeared and imitations, customs and ceremonies that are the foundation of dissension, the cause of obstinacy, the means of war and struggle have appeared.  The original purpose of the appearance of the Holy Manifestations and the establishment of the divine teachings have passed away.  When this black darkness, that is, the imitations of fathers and forefathers, surrounded the world and the original illumination of divine religions became obliterated, the Morn of Truth dawned and the Sun of Reality (Bahá'u'lláh) shone forth from the horizon of Persia and cast the rays of heavenly oneness upon the world of humanity.  He brought down the edifice of the imitations of the ignorant, the human conduct and customs that emanate from the prejudices of the ancient.  These divine teachings are established in the heart of the horizons like unto the penetration of the spirit in the bodies.  Thus, at present in Persia, through the breathing of the Spirit of God, different people have torn asunder the curtain of superstitions, become free from the imitations of the ignorant, reached reality, and in the utmost harmony and love are associating with people of different religions.  Great assemblies are being organized consisting of Muslims, Jews, Zoroastrians and sometimes Buddhists, including many races.  Turks, Arabs, Persians, Kurds, English, French and Americans mingle together as kind and happy brothers.  Like the lambs of God, they graze in the meadow of reality, under the shadow of the training of the heavenly Shepherd.  When thou considerest truth or reality thou wilt see that these old and decayed limitations in religion become the cause of bloodshed among the people and the nations.
"As this age is a luminous age and this century the century of knowledge, new teachings are necessary, a new effulgence
page 136
is essential and a new life is needed.  The souls cannot accept the ancient ideas, a new thought and new teachings are necessary that shall be the spirit of this age and the light of this century.  Investigate, make a great effort so that the Centre of the Light of Reality may be seen in the assembly of the world as a witness of love, and arise with such a power and confirmation that thou may'st shake that country.  Upon thee be greetings and praise!"
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá 'Abbás.
__________
3 July 1914.
The German battleship Gaeben arrived at Haifa.  Its admiral and officers were invited by the Persian consul to land and have dinner in the village Nahr (river), which is about two hours distance from 'Akká; also to visit the holy tomb of Bahá'u'lláh.  It is said that they accepted the invitation chiefly to visit the holy tomb.  They were accompanied by the Persian consul, the Mayor of 'Akká and Turkish officers and statesmen.  They entered the Holy Threshold and prayed with the utmost respect.  The admiral remarked that he had been in many sacred places, but had never encountered one so filled with spirituality, or that had such a wonderfully beautiful site.  As they went out they were served with tea, cakes, etc.  While the military band played some of them also visited the Garden of Ridván at 'Akká.  They boarded the ship at 'Akká and sailed the same night.
__________
4 July 1914.
The following tablet was revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at 'Akká for a believer in America:
"According to the text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (the most Holy Book-Bahá'u'lláh's Book of Laws) and the explicit Kitáb-i-'Ahd (the Book of the Covenant), 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the interpreter of all the words and books of the Blessed Beauty.  This matter is evident and clear to those who are familiar with the epistle and the tablets.  If it were not so each one would interpret according to his desire, prefer his interpretation to any other, and become the cause of dissension.  However, if a soul explains one of the divine verses, and the sanction of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is not upon it, it is discarded.  This is not the time of interpretation, it is the time of teaching.  All of the friends must employ their tongues in teaching, because teaching is the cause of guiding the ones of earth, of illumination of the world, of leading the world of humanity, of the confirmations of the breath of the Holy Spirit.  This is the great Cause.  However, if a soul attempts to give his own explanation of the blessed verses and it is not detrimental to the Cause, do not object to him if it is only verbal."
The following tablet was revealed for one of the Americans, an illumined minister who became a believer when 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited America:
"O my revered!  Thy letter that thou hast written in the utmost sincerity and love was the cause of perfect joy.  Indeed, with soul and heart thou art striving in order that thou may'st be confirmed by the good pleasure of God.  Undoubtedly, this blessed intention has a great effect.  A good intention is like unto a brilliant candle, its light shines in all directions.  Now, thanks be to God, thou hast risen with utmost effort to light a candle of guidance in that country, and to plant in the garden of the world of humanity a tree of love and gentleness, to herald to the Kingdom of God, to become the cause of awakening of the heedless, to give healing to the spiritually sick, to become the cause of broadening the thought, to train characters, to impart progress to the minds and souls, to bring the lost sheep to the shadow of the real Shepherd, and to guide the migrant birds of the rose-garden of reality.  Rest thou assured that the confirmations of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh will come."


IX:13, 4 November 1918
page 140
Doors of the Holy Land open
Recent letters from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
page 141
Extract from letter to Mr Alfred E. Lunt
The enclosed words are from a letter just received by me from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.  These are the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá expressed, as Mírzá Ahmad says, many times during the last months.  Certainly they are full of significance. ...  Faithfully yours, Alfred E. Lunt.
Recent words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The darkness of this gloomy night shall pass away.  Again the Sun of Reality will dawn from the horizon of the hearts.  Have patience-wait, but do not sit idle; work while you are waiting; smile while you are wearied with monotony; be firm while everything around you is being shaken; be joyous while the ugly face of despair grins at you; speak aloud while the malevolent forces of the nether world try to crush your mind; be valiant and courageous while men all around you are cringing with fear and cowardice.  Do not yield to the overwhelming power of tyranny and despotism.  Serve the cause of democracy and freedom.  Continue your journey to the end.  The bright day is coming.  The nucleus of the new race is forming.  The harbinger of the new ideals of international justice is appearing.  The trees of hope will become verdant; the copper of scorn and derision will be transmuted into the gold of honour and praise; the arid desert of ignorance will be transformed into the luxuriant garden of knowledge, the threatening clouds shall be dispelled and the stars of faith and charity will again twinkle in the clear heaven of human consciousness.
Letter to Mr Joseph H. Hannen
Haifa, Palestine, 26 September 1918.
To Mr Joseph H. Hannen,
Washington, D.C.
...
page 142
... The last four years, the best of my life, were spent under the worst conditions imaginable, the Turkish rule, which was more venomous than a serpent and more deadly than a scorpion; but, praise be to God, a hundred-thousand times praise be to God, that we are at last free; all Palestine is free; the people are free to think as they like, to write as they like and to speak as they like.  Palestine from now on is on the road to national life, virtuous achievements and unlimited progress.
The victorious British army came down from Nazareth like unto a mighty irresistible whirlwind on 23 September, and at 3 p.m. took possession of our town, after a battle of twenty-four hours, the picture of which shall never be effaced from the page of my memory.  The army that captured Haifa were all English and Indian cavalrymen, and they showed courage, invincibility and heroism in the very jaws of death.
... Personally, I had become like a man deaf, blind, and speechless.  All the fair realities of my past happy life in America, England, and France had become like faint dreams, and these dreams also had begun to fade away from the page of my memory, when all of a sudden, as though out of the clear, blue sky, the booming of the cannons was heard across the mountains, heralding the glad news of the approach of our liberators and presaging the coming days of reunion, happiness and mutual association of the friends.  Now again the world is mine.  My happiness is boundless.  I can breathe the fresh air of friendship.  I am planning to leave for the United States as soon as possible.  What joy, what real intoxication to see again the friends face to face!
...
Your sincere brother,
Ahmad Sohráb.
Letter and Tablet to Mrs Georgie Ralston
Haifa, Palestine, 8 October 1918.
[Original covering letter dated 10 January 1917] ... was written nearly two years ago, but returned to me from Constantinople because war was declared between the United States and Germany. ...
Ahmad Sohráb
10 January 1917
...
page 143
... The news about the progress of the Cause and the awakening of hearts in the United States has imparted to us life and happiness.  Referring to this question, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said today:
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"I am like a man who has lost the most priceless jewel.  He is seeking here and searching there, perchance he might find it and regain his old happiness and assurance in its possession.  The Blessed Perfection knows that, day and night-nay rather, every hour-I am looking toward the East and toward the West, toward the North and toward the South, to see whether severed and attracted souls have arisen to teach the Cause of God, to behold whether divine beings; who are the jewels of the treasury of the Spirit, are living in accordance with the principles of this Revelation, to discern whether enkindled hearts are raising their clarion voices in the assemblages of mankind, calling them to the Dawning-place of Truth and the Fountain of Reality.  These souls are my lost jewels.  Whenever I find a trace of them or someone gives me a clue about them, I become infinitely happy and, adding to my zeal, I continue my indefatigable search.  I pray to God that He may give me many such jewels in America.  My hope is that every one of the believers may become a brilliant jewel of the mine of guidance and a shining star of the heaven of virtue.  Whenever I hear that such a soul is found, I praise the Blessed Beauty for His favour and bounty and beg Him to encircle him with the angels of protection and the seraphs of preservation."
Your kind and welcome letter of 25 June 1916, enclosing a petition for 'Abdu'l-Bahá reached me, and I read to him the contents of both.  He was most glad to receive the good news of your health and spirituality and that you have been in California, associating with dear Mrs Goodall and her daughter.  No doubt you are now back again in New York, co-operating with the friends in that city in the service of the Kingdom.  The following is the translation of a Tablet dictated in your name:
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs Ralston
O thou my daughter of the Kingdom!  Thy letter full of significances imparted spiritual joy and stirred the hearts into cheerfulness.  It was an indication of thy inward illumination and a brilliant proof of the fact that thou art drawing the rays of Truth from the fount of Mercy.  From the time of our separation up to this hour thou wert and art ever in my mind.  I have not forgotten thee even for one day, similarly Mr Ralston; for both of you are most dear to me.  Praise be to God, that your eyes are seeing and your ears hearing and your hearts illumined with the Light of the Most Great Guidance.  Your trip to New York was most seasonable and the means of the tranquillity of heart and soul.  I hope that during this winter you may spend your time with the utmost rejoicing, but you must be present in the meetings of the believers and become the means of love and affinity of one toward another.  Soul-cheering news reaches us from New York, that good-fellowship is realized amongst the friends and union and accord is perfect.  I hope that Mr Ralston and thyself may become the means of holding such meetings, the harvests of which may be abundant, day by day the believers may be-
page 144
come more loving and kind toward each other and always good news may arrive from New York, granting joy and happiness to the hearts of the yearning ones.  Convey on my behalf kindness and greeting to each and all the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:14, 23 November 1918
page 153
"Now is the time that the teachings of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh be promulgated in that continent"
First Tablet revealed for American Bahá'ís since the opening of the doors of the Holy Land.
To the maid-servants of the Merciful, Mrs Helen S. Goodall and Mrs Ella G. Cooper, San Francisco, California-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two blessed, believing souls!
It is now some years that correspondence was interrupted and communication discontinued.  Outwardly there has been no news, no letter and no greeting, but the ideal relations have been strong and unshakeable.
From the rose-garden of the hearts of the friends we inhaled sweet and perfuming fragrances.  This was indeed conducive to the consolation of the souls.
Now, praise be to God, the road of correspondence is already wide open and ere long the means of meeting will become available.  Therefore, I engage myself in writing this epistle, addressing all the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful who are absent, though present spiritually.
All that has been explicitly recorded and embodied in the tablets of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh more than fifty years ago, are in these days revealed and unfolded.  Read those tablets, especially the Epistle of the Temple (Súriy-i-Haykal) and the tablets to the kings and rulers of the earth!
Consider ye!  What greater miracle is there than this!
page 154
Not a single individual could conceive that Bahá'u'lláh addressed on that day, kings and emperors whose fame had filled all the regions and who had raised themselves to the utmost height of autocracy, predicting in an unmistakable and clear tone the events and happenings of these days.  Notwithstanding this the people are not awakened!
In brief, now is the time that the teachings of His Highness Bahá'u'lláh be promulgated in that continent, so that all the inhabitants may become ready for the establishment of universal peace, the flag of the oneness of the world of humanity be unfurled and all the nations and tribes may obtain tranquillity and composure under the shade of the tabernacle of unity.
Upon ye be greeting and Bahá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:14, 23 November 1918
page 155
Tablets revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the winter of 1916-17, but just received in America
Tablet to Mr Vail
(Dated Haifa, Syria, 27 December 1916.  Mailed on that date but returned to Haifa from Constantinople, and remailed 9 October 1918.)
To Mr Albert Vail.
O thou heavenly youth!  O thou herald of the Kingdom of God!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast written that the light of the Islamic world and the Holy Land is being spread in the West.  This news imparts happiness to the hearts of the Unitarians that, praise be to God, the reality of the Holy Manifestations is becoming manifest and evident.  The divine outpourings are like unto the sun.  The sun has many houses, different dawning-places.  Whosoever loves the vision of the sun, his eyes will become illumined through its rays, no matter from what dawning-place it may arise.
Thou hast written regarding the programme of the Green Acre Conferences in the past summer, that the believers were in the utmost attraction and from all parts the guests hastened to that spot saying that such radiant meetings had not been brought about in any of the former ages, the members of which associated with each other with perfect love and affinity.  This was a most auspicious glad tidings to the Unitarians.  Wherever the blessed souls gather together the Beloved of that meeting is the love of God and the utmost joy and happiness is obtained.  Should Green Acre follow firmly in this path and continue the annual holding of its impartial, universal Conferences, there is no doubt that that region will become illumined with the light of unity.
Praise be to God, that Dr _____ rent asunder the veil of imagination and became enlightened with the effulgence of Unity.  Mr Urban Ledoux became lordly, heavenly and became instrumental in releasing Miss Farmer from that prison.  Convey to him on my behalf the utmost kindness.  Gladden thou the hearts of Mrs _____ and Miss _____ with the divine favours and promise them the gain of a new confirmation.  Say to Mr _____ , the Indian:  "Render thou thanks unto the Lord, for the heart and the soul became luminous with the light of Guidance and in that gathering thou didst become enkindled like unto a candle and thou art realizing the value of the spiritual fraternity."  Announce my greeting to Mr Randall and say:  "The love of the Word of God is the magnet of heavenly glory and beauty.  I hope that thou mayst become a centre for the emanation of the lights of love and a dawning-place of the sign of unity."  Say to Miss Juliet Thompson:  "Praise be to God, that in the midst of the whirling tempest of test thou didst remain firm and steadfast and like unto the pure gold in the fire of ordeal thou didst unveil thy happy and confident face."  Give thou the glad tidings of the spiritual confirmation to Miss Martha Root and say:  "During thy travel around the world the assistance of the Holy Spirit followed thee at all times; for this reason thou didst become able to fulfil its duties."  Mr Wilhelm, my son, of the Kingdom, verily, verily, I say unto you, on his head he has a crown of everlasting glory and dignity with the utmost beauty and perfection.  Convey on my behalf longing greetings to M. Ishti'ál Ibn-i-Kalántar.1  I am pleased with his lectures delivered with eloquence and fluency.  Day and, night I remember Mr Hall and do not forget the days that I
page 164
spent with him.  This personage has rendered many services to this Cause.  The value of his services must be appreciated.  Mrs True is one of the first maid-servants of the Kingdom of God.  She is well known to and praised by the believers and the maid-servants of the Merciful both in the East and in the West.  She has displayed and is displaying the utmost effort in the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  I am most pleased with her.  And I beg of God that she may become assisted to bring this service to an end.  Likewise convey on my behalf to each and all the believers who have gathered together in Green Acre my love, kindness and spiritual greeting.
As to thee, O thou herald of the Kingdom!  Rest thou assured.  The favours and bounties of the Merciful One are all-encircling and likewise my love for thee is perfect.  Every night from the divine Threshold I beg for thee confirmation and assistance, so that on the continent of America thou mayst become a brilliant proof, a shining light and a beaming star.  Praise be to God, that in the publication and circulation of the Star of the West thou art displaying the utmost effort.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
(Signed, on the English translation, in Persian and English.)
Tablet to Mr Wilhelm
Haifa, Syria, 27 December 1916.
Mr Roy C. Wilhelm.
O thou my heavenly son!
Several letters and cards have been received from thee, and each one indicated thy firmness and steadfastness in the love of God.  Praise be to God, that that illumined youth is like unto an enkindled candle and hast dedicated thy life in the service of the Kingdom of God, and day by day thou art adding to thy illumination and spirituality.
Thou hast written about the conferences of Green Acre.  I became very happy that a number of sweet-singing birds were engaged by day and by night in the praise of His Highness the Almighty.  Should, in the coming year also, a great conference be held in that meadow, a heavenly festival be organized with the utmost love and affinity and the jubilee of the oneness of the world of humanity be arranged, there is no doubt that each soul will become like a candle in that gathering and such joy and happiness will be unveiled that the continent of America will be moved and stirred.  Day and night, with the utmost supplication and entreaty, I beseech and implore at the Threshold of divine servitude, and beg for those friends confirmation and assistance and read in your behalf this blessed verse of the Qur'án.  He says: "The believing souls who are in the utmost sincerity and steadfastness will undoubtedly become confirmed and assisted."  Now, praise be to God, that you are the manifestors of divine aid and are being helped to render services to the Kingdom of the Merciful.
You have given the glad news that the foundation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be laid next year.  This is also my hope that this Temple may become fully constructed and the holy verse of the Qur'án, "We have given thee a great victory", become realized.  For the building of this Temple is a most great triumph.
Convey to all the friends longing greetings.  Praise be to God, we are all safe and guarded under the protection and preservation of God.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
page 165
Tablet to Mrs True
(Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and signed by him, for Mrs Corinne True.  Sent from Haifa, Syria, through Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 January 1917, but returned to him owing to suspension of mail service in Syria during the war, and, with the opening of the mail service, was received in Chicago 22 November 1918.)
O thou beloved spiritual daughter!
Thy postal card of 26 August 1916, was received and its contents indicated that the believers of Detroit, Grand Rapids, Muskegon, Chicago and Fruitport have gathered together and have spent their time with perfect love, unity and joy.
In whatever place the believers of God hold a meeting, peruse the heavenly teachings and associate with each other with the utmost amity, affection and harmony, there is no doubt whatsoever that the Holy Spirit will become the Candle of that gathering; and the blessed souls participating in that meeting will feel spontaneously the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.  Therefore, I became most happy over this news contained in thy card.  With infinite kindness convey my longing and greeting to the believers of all these cities.  I desire for all of them life eternal; beg for them heavenly outpourings, and seek for each the effulgences of the Sun of Reality.
I hope that in this year [1917] the solid and firm foundation of [the] Mashriqu'l-Adhkár be laid.  In reality, thou art displaying great effort.  Praise be to God, that through thy endeavour and magnanimity useful results were produced.  I hope the believers of God will become able to pay the $200,000.00 which they have pledged themselves to contribute.  God says in the Qur'án: "Those who believe in God and in the Day of Judgement will become able to build the mosques of God."  In other words: Divine Temples are built by holy souls who believe in God and in the Kingdom of God.  I hope that the American believers may soon become able to accomplish this work.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translation of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Tablet to Mr Hannen
(Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Haifa, Syria, 26 December 1916.  Received at Washington, D.C., 20 November 1918.)
To Joseph H. Hannen, Washington, D.C.
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Truly I say, thou art the servant of the Kingdom of God!  And thou hast no other intention and aim save the promotion of the Word of God and the diffusion of the fragrances of God.  The call of approbation and "Well done" descends from the Unknown World and the voice of "Happy is thy condition!  Happy is thy condition!" reaches the ears of the spiritual ones without cessation.  From the time that I have hastened from America to the East thou hast spent thy time in the service of the Cause.  I bear testimony to this.  Up to this time the divine confirmations and spiritual aids have descended upon thee uninterruptedly, and in the future you will be encircled with the same, more than before.  Rest thou assured.  Although we are as the weak ants, yet praise be to God, the "Great Power" is our helper; therefore with perfect strength arise thou in the service of the Cause and convey on my behalf respectful greeting to all the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful.
I hope that in the next year the foundations of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár be laid and in the United States the dome of this heavenly building will be so raised that
page 166
it may be viewed from long distances and the melody of thanksgiving and glorification ascend to the Kingdom of Glory.  In the past the Eastern believers have sent a contribution, and at the present time international communication is at a standstill and Persia is ruined; otherwise they would have made still another effort and collected another contribution.  I hope that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in Chicago may become the second Temple of God in the world of humanity, and, like the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Ishqábád, it may become the means of the promotion of the Cause.
Convey on my behalf infinite kindness to thy respected wife; likewise the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:15, 12 December 1918
page 171
Tablets revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the winter of 1916-17, but just received in America (continued)
Tablet to Juanita Storch
Revealed at Haifa, Syria, 25 December 1916, mailed but sent back from Constantinople.  Remailed when doors of Holy Land were opened recently and received in California, 25 November 1918.
To Juanita Storch.
O thou light of the love of God!
Thy detailed letter and also the second one received.  Both of them reflected the luminous susceptibilities of a universal consciousness, indicating that (Praise be to God!) that beloved daughter has become like unto a clear mirror, upon the translucent surface of which is focussed the beaming rays of the shining Orb of this century and her heart and spirit is so set aglow with the fire of the love of God, that involuntarily and passionately she is raising the call of the Kingdom of God.
The darkness of the world of nature has encompassed the kingdom of creation.  In these tenebrous1 darknesses tremendous calamities are hidden for mankind, except those souls who have drawn light from the Sun of Reality.  These sanctified souls like unto the birds are always soaring, and in the rose-garden of Truth, ever singing songs and melodies.  Praise be to God, thou hast a listening ear and didst hear the spiritual lay2 of the Covenant from a hundred-thousand miles!  What a stirring anthem is raised from the Supreme Concourse!-for it imparts joy and exhilaration to the hearts.  The attracted hearts are like unto harps and lyres from which continually issues forth a rich stream of harmonious colours, charming notes and divine airs!
O thou beloved daughter! Praise be to God, that thou hast capacity and worthiness, in order to become the maid-servant of the Kingdom of God and in the heavenly festival and spiritual society thou mayst decorate the meeting with the beauties of song and melody.  In the world of humanity the "Commonwealth of the Kingdom" is being organized and from this "collective Centre", merciful emotions and light-beaming rays are being diffused to all directions.  The love of God is the attractive force of this "Ultra-Cosmic-Centre."
O thou beloved daughter!  At the time when the Light of Reality shone forth from the Mosaic dawning-place, the Mount of Sinai became luminous; but the hearts of the heedless ones remained in intense darkness and they reproached the blessed believing souls.  Afterwards they perceived that it was themselves that merited contempt and censure.  Likewise, when the Word of God, His Holiness Christ and His apostles upraised the flag of guidance and the Light of Reality dawned, all the people abused and scorned them, as the texts of the Gospel bear testimony to this fact; nay rather, they spat on the holy countenance of Jesus Christ and ridiculed, insulted and vilified Him.  Later on, it became manifest that He was the Light of Truth and was bestowing the spirit of eternal life.  When in the Arabian peninsula the light of prophethood shone forth and His Holiness Mohammed (Upon Him be peace) engaged His time in the guidance of those barbarous people, everyone reviled and calumniated Him.  Their answer was given by divine revelation in the following Qur'anic verse:
"Woe unto the servants!  No prophet cometh unto them, but they laugh him to scorn!"  Afterwards it became evi-
page 173
dent that that blessed Personage was conducive to the illumination of the peninsula of Arabia, and the cause of the guidance and progress of those tribes who ascended to the supreme apex of eternal felicity.  Consequently, do thou not wonder at the ridicule of the ignorant ones and the blame of the witless.  Those who are ignorant have always cast reproach upon those who are wise.
Convey longing greeting to all the believers of God.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
(Signed in Persian and in English)
Tablet to Mrs Page
A letter dated Haifa, Syria, 26 January 1917, enclosing the following Tablet, was received recently from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, through Joseph H. Hannen.
Mrs Arthur Page.
O thou respected maid-servant of God!
Thou hast written that since two years the fragrance of the rose-garden of Bahá'u'lláh is being diffused in Detroit, Michigan, and two ministers have invited Bahá'í speakers to their churches, so that they may speak about divine principles and cause the irradiation of the light of guidance.  Praise be to God, the Bahá'ís are characterized with such qualities and attributes that they are the object of the praise and commendation of all nations; they are the means of the proclamation of the oneness of the world of humanity and the promotion of the ideals of universal peace.
Today, the most great foundation of real civilization is this, and this is conducive to the tranquillity of the world of creation.
In this glorious century, this basis is most firm and strong.  But there must needs be the power of the Kingdom in order to establish these principles.  Because the believers of God are confirmed with the heavenly power, I hope they may enkindle the candles of the oneness of the world of humanity in all the societies of mankind, the anthem of universal peace may reach the East and the West, religion may become the means of good-fellowship amongst the people, justice and equity may unfurl their flags on the apex of the world, religion and science may correspond with each other and be conducive to the promotion of peace and salvation, ignorant prejudices may be dispelled and the lights of Reality be diffused.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Alberta Hall
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 19 December 1916, and mailed, but returned from Constantinople.  Remailed upon the opening of the doors of the Holy Land and received recently in America.
To Miss Alberta Hall.
O thou maid-servant of God!
Although in body thou art weak and ill and, like unto Job, the object of many trials, yet (Praise be to God!) thou art strong in spirit and in the utmost health and joyousness.  The peculiarities of this physical world are illness and diseases, and the essences of the universe of God are health and vigour.  The body is like unto the lamp and the spirit like unto the light.  Praise be to God, that the light is in the utmost brilliancy no matter if the lamp is somewhat affected.  May the illumination of the light remain eternal and undying.  Thank thou God that the light of thy spirit is burning with the oil of the love of God and its flame is becoming brighter day by day.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:14, 23 November 1918
page 197
Tablets revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the winter of 1916-17, but just received in America (continued)
Tablet to Mrs Addison
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 18 December 1916.  Mailed at that time but returned.  Remailed 11 November 1918.
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Juliet P. Addison-Upon her be greeting and praise!
O thou who art enkindled with the fire of the love of God!
Thy letter was received on 24 November 1916.  Thou hast written concerning the trip of the daughter of the Kingdom, Mrs Ford.  That heavenly speaker delivered the divine glad tidings through whichever city she passed and occupied herself in the promotion of spiritual teachings.  She suffered the ears to hearken to this heavenly melody.  Infinite results and heavenly illumination will appear out of this endeavour and service.  It is hoped that other souls will walk in her footsteps, so that they
page 198
may become the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity.  Consider, when the confirmations of God have encircled a soul, how it is assisted to render great services!  I hope that this unlimited bounty may encompass one and all.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Mrs Waite
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 29 January 1917.  Mailed at that time but returned on account of the war conditions.  Remailed 8 October 1918.
O thou sweet singing bird!
Thy letter was received.  From its contents it became evident that thou hast moved from Chicago to Los Angeles.  Praise be to God, that thou art engaged and confirmed in the services of the Kingdom of God.  With a sweet melody thou art imparting joy and exhilaration to the souls; in the meetings stir and move the audiences through the heavenly call.  Arise thou in offering due thanks for this bounty, because thou art assisted in such a Great Cause.  The results of thy services thou shalt find in the divine world-the limitless universe of the True One.  Their fruits will likewise become apparent ere long in this world.
I perused the article thou hast written concerning the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  Thou hast taken much trouble in the correspondence of Numbers.  The digit 9 is the perfect number, and other high numbers are the mere repetition of number 1 to 9.  For example:  Number 10 is the repetition of number 1; 20 is the repetition of number 2; 100 is the repetition of number 10; 1000 is the repetition of 100, ad infinitum.  Consequently the most perfect and greatest number is 9.  Extract as far as thou canst the hidden significances from number 5 and 9.  Thy reasoning and the power of thy thought are very penetrating.  The poem, "Sons of God", that thou hast forwarded was in reality wonderful, sweet, eloquent, and fluent, and its meanings most thrilling.  Strive thou in the composition of such pieces, so that at all times the river of pure poesy1 may flow from thy tongue.  The maid-servant of God, who ascended to the divine Kingdom, Táhirih, made matchless translations of thy poems; she always translated them into Persian poetry, which made them very attractive.  Keep the letters which thou hast with thyself; for many letters now mailed from America do not reach us.  Praise be to God, that the meetings in Los Angeles are in the utmost state of unity and concord-this news brought to us great happiness.  Convey on my behalf to each and all of the believers my loving greetings and kindness.  Thou hast written about Mrs Ella Wheeler Wilcox.  This respected lady has infinite capabilities.  She is like a lamp filled with oil which no sooner comes in contact with fire than it is set aglow.  Now it is thus hoped that she may become enkindled with the fire of the love of God, and her torch become so illumined, so luminous, as to illumine all directions.  A letter is written in her name; deliver it to her.
Upon thee be greetings and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Miss Annie Boylan
Translated about two years ago by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, but owing to the war was held in Palestine.  Mailed 12 October 1918.
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy postal card received.  It indicated thy firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament.  Thank thou God that thou art holding fast and art a promulgator of the Covenant of God, art suffering the thirsty ones to drink from the spring of guidance and inviting the hungry ones to the heavenly
page 199
table.  This is one of the greatest bestowals of the Almighty.  Thank thou God for it, because thou art confirmed therein.  Convey my utmost kindness to the attracted maid-servant of God, Mrs Krug.  It is a long time that we have heard no news from her.  Of late, we received the news that her daughter has the intention of marriage.  We hope that this marriage will be a blessed one!
In brief, that dear daughter is always remembered.  I pray in thy behalf, that day by day thou mayest become more illumined and draw more nigh unto the Kingdom of God.
Convey longing greeting to all the believers and the maid-servants of the Merciful.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:14, 23 November 1918
page 161
Teach the Cause of God-the most important work
A compilation of the Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá from Talks and Tablets-By Albert Vail.
The world illuminating sun-The promotion of the Cause of God
To a Persian believer in Tihrán he ('Abdu'l-Bahá) says:  "Thou has longed for the power of teaching the Religion of God.  This desire is the ultimate hope of the sincere ones.  Unquestionably, a wise man strives to attain to the highest and greatest object in the world of creation.  Today the world-illuminating Sun is the matter of the promotion of the Cause of God.  Whosoever is assisted in this, he is favoured at the Threshold of the Almighty.  Therefore, do thou not behold thine own capacity and ability; nay, rather, during the hour that thou art teaching the Cause of God, turn thy face toward the
page 162
Kingdom of Abhá, beg for Divine Confirmations and with the utmost confidence and power open thy tongue and speak out boldly all that with which thy heart is inspired. ..."
From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 August 1914.
Cry out the message of the Kingdom
Today we are standing before the illimitable sea; let us not deprive ourselves.  Let us heroically dive into the depths of the great ocean and gather the scintillating pearls of wisdom.  Thou must teach the Cause and spread the Message.  When thou art asked to talk at a meeting, turn thy heart to Bahá'u'lláh, begging confirmation from Him, and then speak; He will inspire you.  Cry out the message of the Kingdom; do not be silent; be not quiet; teach the Cause.
From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 19 January 1913.  Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a man who had become a Bahá'í since meeting him the previous year.
Become lamps of the true one
As to human souls, unless they acquire the lights they are unable to shine upon other individuals.  But when a man arises to expound the argument of God and invite people to enter into the Religion of God, and when he utters those arguments and advances consummate proofs concerning the appearance of the Great Kingdom-then intense love shall become manifest in his heart.  This love causes the development of his spirit by the Grace of the Beneficent Lord.  Consider the bearer who brought the garment of Joseph to Jacob; that messenger was the bearer of the garment, but he could not inhale the fragrance of Joseph.  But Jacob, whose nostrils were pure, inhaled the fragrances of Joseph from a long distance.
It may be that a man can guide a blessed soul unto the Kingdom of God while he himself is deprived thereof.  Consider Judas Iscariot; he invited others while he himself was deprived of the Kingdom of God.  But in spiritual training it is impossible for an imperfect one to perfect another, or train another, unless he first conquer his own self and desire, and become purified from selfish iniquities in order to become capable of Merciful Splendours.  When he acquires divine Bounties, then he is able to train another.  An ignorant man has no power to teach a seeker, and a poor man has no power to succour a needy one.  Consequently be thou assured that verily man needs to wish for Eternal Life and then confer the same upon another.  The human perfections and Merciful Bounties are that Peace which was promised and spoken of by Christ.
Then know thou verily that the people
page 163
of Bahá must needs be distinguished from others in all respects, until they become the lamps of the True One among the creatures, and the stars of Guidance shining from the Supreme Concourse.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet to Mrs Kate Ives, translated by M. Ishti'ál Ibn-i-Kalántar,1 October, 1904, Eliot, Maine.)
The greatest of the gifts of God
Through Mr Thornton Chase, Thábit-Upon him be Bahá'u'lláh!-to the maid-servant of God, Mrs Cecilia Harrison.
O thou maid-servant of the Kingdom!
Thy service in the Kingdom of God is known and thy troubles in serving the Cause of God are evident and apparent.
This is the greatest of the gifts of God, that in such a blessed age and holy century thou shouldst raise thy voice in the Kingdom of God and invite people to the holy mountain of the Lord of Hosts.
Soon thou shalt see that on account of the bounties of the Kingdom thou didst become the cause of guidance to others, and by the grace of the Lord Almighty thou hast surpassed the queens of the world.  Thou shalt see eternal honour; thou shalt find everlasting life; thou shalt see the world illumined with the light of great guidance.
O dear maid-servant of God!
All the people, day and night, are working and striving and have no leisure at all; but in the end they will be disappointed and deprived; the effect of their efforts will be obliterated, and with the utmost loss and chagrin they depart from this world and do not receive any value for this life.  But, on the other hand, the sons and daughters of the Kingdom will ultimately become burning lights and will be as shining stars in the horizon of eternal honour.  Therefore, thank thou God that thou didst arrive at this station.
'Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá S. M. Raffle, Chicago, 6 February 1909.


IX:15, 12 December 1918
page 169
First Tablet revealed for the Bahá'ís of Persia since opening of doors of Holy Land
To his honour Áqá Siyyid Nasru'lláh Bágirúf.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
It was a long time since the thread of correspondence had been entirely broken, and the hearts were affected with sorrow and agitation.  Now, praise be to God, that in these days, through divine favour, the black clouds are dispersed and the light of composure and tranquillity has enlightened this region; the tyrannous government is done away with and followed by a just administration.  All the people are delivered from the most great hardship and the most difficult affliction.  In this huge tempest and violent revolution, in which all nations of the world were caught and were involved in dire calamity, cities were destroyed, people were slaughtered, properties were pillaged and taken as booty, the cries and lamentations of the helpless ones were raised from every prominent spot and the tears falling from the eyes of the orphans like a flowing torrent in all the low countries-under all these conditions, praise be to God, that through the favour and bounty of the Blessed Perfection and because the believers of God have lived in accord with the lordly teachings, they have been protected and guarded.  Not even a single particle of dust settled on the face of a believer.  Verily, this is a most great miracle which cannot be denied except by every stiff-necked transgressor!  It has meanwhile become evident and manifest that the holy teachings of His High-
page 170
ness Bahá'u'lláh are the cause of the comfort and illumination of the world of humanity.  In the blessed Tablets (of Bahá'u'lláh)1 the justice and the administrative sagacity of the Imperial government of England have been repeatedly dwelt upon, and now it has become clear that, in reality, the inhabitants of this country, after untold sufferings, have attained to composure and security.
This is the first letter that I write to Persia.  God willing, I shall write others afterwards.  Convey with the utmost longing to each and all the believers of God the wonderful Abhá greeting, and give us the glad-tidings of the health and safety of all the believers.  Although the tempest and the hurricane were intense and violent, yet, praise be to God, the Ark of Salvation reached the heaven of security, while protected and guarded.  Announce greeting and salutation on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Bahá with the utmost joy and fragrance "to the hands of the Cause of God", his honour Amín and likewise the rulers of firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IX:15, 12 December 1918
page 172
"Fourteen peace points" for Bahá'ís to discuss in public meetings
Alláh-u-Abhá!
Some years ago, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the following principles or "points" in a Tablet to Mr C. Mason Remey, dated 5 March 1914.  They speak for themselves:
"In those public meetings, universal and not particular principles must be discussed; those principles which I have expounded in the public meetings.  Only that identical programme must be followed:
1.	The oneness of the world of humanity.
2.	The investigation of Reality.
3.	The essential unity of the Religions of God.
4.	The abandonment of religious, denominational, racial and patriotic prejudices.
5.	The conformity of divine Religion with reason and science.
6.	The Religion of God must become the cause of amity and love amongst mankind, otherwise it is better to forswear it.
7.	Equality between man and woman.
8.	The essential necessity of the confirmation of the Holy Spirit.
9.	The demonstration of divinity and inspiration.
10.	The power of the (spiritual) influence of Bahá'u'lláh.
11.	The underlying unity of all existing faiths.
12.	The dawn of the Sun of Reality from the horizon of Persia.
13.	Universal peace.
14.	Universal language:  The education of the children of all the Religions, under a universal standard of instruction and a common curriculum.
"Questions of this nature must be propounded in the public meetings."
The Editors


IX:16, 31 December 1918
page 177
Stories children should know
Compiled from the Words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá to assist Parents and Teachers in the Education of Children-A Sequel to "Bahá'í Methods of Education"
Pauline A. Hannen
Stories about Bahá'u'lláh
page 182
Vision of Bahá'u'lláh at the age of six years
He saw himself fall into the sea.  In the water his long hair became shining
page 183
like the sun, and spread out around him like a golden net.  All the fishes, large and small, came swimming towards him, holding to the strands of his hair.  The fishes came closer and closer, following him as he swam through the waters which were shining like the sun.  The fishes were countless in number.  'Abdu'l-Karím, a wise man who interpreted visions for the kings, was told of this vision by the father of Bahá'u'lláh.  'Abdu'l-Karím answered:  "Your son will be a great man.  The water is knowledge, the fishes swimming about him are the people of all nations who will come to be taught by his wisdom.  He will be forced away and separated from earthly things, and will reflect the light of the Word of God."
Words of Munírih Khánum, wife of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 88.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh as a dervish in the mountains
A boy, attending a village school, had been flogged and sent out for failure in his writing.  While he was weeping outside the school room, this holy man came by and asked the cause of his grief.  When the lad had explained his trouble the dervish said:  "Do not grieve, I will set you another copy, and teach you to write well."  He then took the boy's slate and wrote some words in very beautiful characters.  The boy was delighted, and showing his slate in pride at now having a better master than he had had in the school, the people were astonished, dervishes being commonly illiterate.  They then began to follow the dervish who wishing to meditate and pray in solitude, left that place for another.
Words of Bahá'íyyih Khánum, sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From Abbas Effendi, His Life and Teachings, by Myron H. Phelps, p. 22.
page 184
__________
Description of a beautiful garden
As told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Outside of Tihrán we had a great park planted by the father of the Blessed Perfection, Bahá'u'lláh.  This was a wonderful garden.  It contained four gates, eastern, western, northern and southern.  As you entered the eastern gate, the western gate was visible, and similarly from the northern gate you could see the southern gate.  In the centre of the garden a great throne was built, and four straight avenues branched off toward the gates, so that you could see all four gates as you sat on the throne.  On both sides of these avenues poplar trees were planted, to the number of ten thousand.  These trees arose erect and majestic toward the sky.  Under the trees thousands of rose bushes were planted, the fragrance of which filled the air.  Often we used to sleep at night on this throne.  The moon, clear, full, silvery, shone upon us, the galaxies of stars shedding their rays, now faintly and again with a lustrous twinkle over the calm and mystic scene of the garden.  Long before sunrise I would open my eyes, admiring with wonder this infinite universe of God.  Then all at once the nightingales in sweet melodies would break into a concert of divine music, the gentle murmur of the rills flowing in from all sides reaching to the ears and the zephyrs would pass through the leaves making the noise of a soft sweeping hand-clap and applause.  In the early mornings the Blessed Perfection would arise and prepare tea for all of us, and while the sun was dawning from the eastern horizon we would gather around Him, drinking tea and enjoying the heavenly scene all around us.
(Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá started to walk through the rose-garden, now and then standing before a rosebush and deeply contemplating its construction and petals.  Looking at a rose which was very like an American Beauty, he said:)
"When we arrived in Constantinople it was just at this season [September].  The garden of the house wherein we lived contained one rosebush, on every branch of which one rose blossomed forth after sunset.  The believers not having seen roses at this season were overjoyed, and until late at night were gathered around it."
(Then he passed by, himself a unique rose in the garden of the world of humanity, the fragrance of which has filled all creation!)
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 19 September 1913.


IX:18, 7 February 1919
page 201
Stories children should know (continued)
Incidents in the childhood of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
It is good to be a spreader of the Teachings of God in childhood.  I was a teacher in this Cause at the age of this child (eight or nine years).  This reminds me of a story.  There was a man, highly educated, but not a Bahá'í.  I, but a child, was to make of him a believer.  The brother of this man brought him to me.  I stayed with him, to teach him.  He said, "I am not convinced, I am not satisfied."  I answered, "If water were offered to a thirsty one, he would drink and be satisfied.  He would take the glass.  But you are not thirsty.  Were you thirsty, then you too would be satisfied.  A man with seeing eyes sees.  I can speak of the sun to every seeing one, and say it is a sign of the day; but a blind person would not be convinced because he cannot see the sun.  If I say to a man with good hearing, listen to the beautiful music, he would then listen and be made happy thereby.  But if you play the most beautiful music in the presence of a deaf man, he would hear nothing.  Now go and receive seeing eyes and hearing ears, then I will speak further with you on this subject."  He went; but later he returned.  Then he understood and became a good Bahá'í.  This happened when I was very young.
Told in Stuttgart, Germany, 4 April 1913.
__________
When I was a little boy in Tihrán I was followed and beaten by the boys and the people because I was a Bábí, but my own people were very glad of this, for they knew that the power of God is manifested in persecution.  If the tree is watered by the rain and the sun shines upon it, is it any worse for it if a little dust falls upon its leaves?  If the father is pleased with his child what does it care about the neighbour's opinion?
From Book of Miscellany, etc., p. 54.
__________
I cared more for hearing the Tablets of the Báb recited than anything else.  I used to commit them to memory and repeat them.  This was the greatest pleasure I knew in my childhood-my play and amusement.  I was not fond of study, nor did I care for books.
At Baghdád I rode on horse back; at one time I had an idea that I would
page 202
like to hunt.  So on a certain occasion I joined a party of hunters and went with them to the chase.  But when I saw them killing birds and animals, I thought this could not be right.  Then it occurred to me that better than hunting for animals, to kill them, was hunting for souls of men to bring them to God.  I then resolved that I would be a hunter of this sort.  This was my first and last experience in the chase.
Footnotes from Abbas Effendi, His Life and Teachings, p. 20.
page 203
Stories told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The box of jewels
Once upon a time, there was a king who went out to hunt with all the members of his cabinet, the diplomats, the officials of the court and a large number of important personages, especially invited for this occasion.  As the king intended to stay in the country all summer he ordered the master of ceremonies to take the imperial tent which was a wonderful work of art, for the king on important occasions had ordered the inside walls and the ceiling of this royal tent to be decorated with hundreds of precious jewels, the price of which could not be measured by dollars and cents.  This year also he asked the minister of finance to take with him the large box of jewels.  Finally after many days of preparation the imperial caravan, which was more than a mile long, started out.  The king headed the procession.  After him came the cabinet ministers, the diplomatic corps, the courtiers and the guests.  They had to travel six days before they could reach the hunting ground.  On the fourth day of travelling it so happened that the horse carrying the box of jewels was toward the end of the caravan.  After three hours march the king looked around and to his apparent surprise, found no one with him but Ayyás and he observed the caravan more than half a mile away from him surrounded with dust and in great confusion.  "What is this?" asked the king.  "Half an hour ago," Ayyás humbly answered, "the box with the jewels fell from the back of the horse and all of the precious stones were scattered on the ground.  Then I saw that a wild scramble followed, everyone forgot his duty and each one tried to collect those jewels."  The king did not move nor show that an extraordinary event had happened.  "Ayyás!" the king said after a few moments of reflection, "Why did you not join them and get a portion of the spoil?  Are they not precious jewels?"  "Yes, my lord!  Those jewels are good for them, I preferred to be with thee.  Thou art the greatest jewel of my life."
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 8 July 1913.
__________
The shepherd of Bahá'u'lláh
'Abdu'l-Bahá took little Mona in his arms and kissed her on both cheeks, and started to talk with her.  "Are you
page 204
French or English?" he asked.  Being shy, she did not answer.  "If the people ask you whether you are English or French, tell them you are a Bahá'í.  Once upon a time there was a shepherd who tended the sheep of Husayn 'Alí (Bahá'u'lláh).  He was a very simple man.  He could neither read nor write.  His neighbours would come and ask him:  'Art thou a Muslim, a Jew or a Christian?'  He did not know how to answer them, but after a moment of reflection he would say, 'I don't really understand your question, but all that I know is that I am the shepherd of Husayn 'Alí.' ...  Thou art my daughter, my dear little daughter.  I want to slap you!" and with great gentleness he patted her cheeks and back.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 October 1913.
__________
The worldly king's lament
It is related that Sabuktakíyn, one of the renowned ancient kings of Persia, lived in the utmost grandeur and splendour.  His palace was like unto the delectable paradise, and his table was provided with royal bounty and his life was like unto a stream of milk and honey.  His treasuries were full and his riches unlimited.  He was in the utmost joy and happiness.  Suddenly he was attacked with a malady and was burning away like unto a candle, and with jeremiads of disappointments1 he was singing the most mournful tunes.  When he became hopeless of this life, three days before his death, he commanded all his chamberlains, wearing golden girdles, to form a long line, and ordered all the ladies-in-waiting to present themselves before him.  His treasures and all his precious jewels were on display before his eyes, and his accumulated wealth was arrayed in dazzling fashion.  Then he invited his ministers, courtiers and statesmen to be present in the throne room on a certain hour, and asked his immense army to be engaged in the manoeuvres of victory and triumph in the military square in front of the palace.  While sitting on his throne, he looked regretfully, now on this scene, now on another, and again on all this matchless array of grandeur and magnificence and wept most bitterly, crying aloud:  "O!  Why must I be deprived of this imperial sovereignty and these royal prerogatives?  Why should I not enjoy this life?  Why bid farewell to all these things?  How can I leave them behind and hasten empty-handed from this
page 205
world to another world?"  He wept and wept till he drew his last breath.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 July 1914.
__________
Kindness to birds and animals
Did you hear the cooing of the doves?  Just now some one fired a gun and they all became silent.  How sweetly they coo.  How lovely it is to see them enjoying their unrestricted freedom!  Is it not cruel to kill these sweet little birds?  How much better to see them tamed through the gentleness of man!  In many countries of the West, laws are enacted to restrict the cruelty of man toward animals, and in some states they can be hunted only at certain seasons.  When I was in America, I went through several large Zoological Gardens, some of which covered many acres.  In these gardens hunting is strictly prohibited.  There are other large National Parks in Western America which I have not seen, where I have been told, gazelle and deer roam at will and man is not allowed to interfere with their freedom.  In these places the animals become so tame that they associate with men.  How ideal this is; how perfect, how good!
One day when we were in Baghdád, a company of small birds took refuge in a tree, because they were chased by a hawk.  Someone took a gun and fired at the hawk.  It fell to the ground dead.  The birds became very happy and flew away, circling in the air and singing songs of joy.
Another day we went from Baghdád to Salmání Park, a village several miles from Baghdád.  On the way I saw a large bush of thistle, under which numerous sparrows had gathered and over which perched a hawk.  The poor sparrows, having seen the hawk, had sought shelter under the clump of thistle and the hawk had followed them.  However, fate was against it, for one of the thorns had pierced its breast, causing its death.  The sparrows, unaware of this fact, continued to remain there until they died of starvation.
Another day the Blessed Beauty, Bahá'u'lláh, desired to go to Salmání Park.  This village was a country place and its climate being fine, Bahá'u'lláh liked to go there.  A fine white donkey was brought, upon which he rode while several of us followed on foot.  When we reached the place, we asked the keeper of the Muslim shrine, whether he had anything for us to eat.  He had nothing, but told us there was a little hamlet six miles away, where one could buy eggs.  At this moment the Blessed Beauty heard our voices and came out of the room.  He said:  "Tonight, I will cook for you a nice dish."  When the time arrived, he said to us:  "Bring some dates and butter and I will cook for you a Kurdish dish.  Put the butter in the pan, let it be boiled, then pit the dates and put them in.  Then stir all with a spoon until they are well mixed."  We followed his advice, and the dish turned out to be very delicious.  Up to the present time the taste of that dish is in my mouth.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 October 1914.
__________
The innocent birds
There was a man by the name of Hájí Muhammad Taqí Shírází, who had joined our company.  He was a great hunter.  He was such a fine marksman that while his horse was galloping he could shoot birds on the wing.  Riding on his horse, with his gun, he followed us.  "Don't kill these innocent birds!"  Bahá'u'lláh said.  But the man paid no attention.  Without exaggeration, he fired on that day five or six hundred shots but without killing one bird.  On our return trip we saw a crane.  It was very large.  This bird rises very slowly from the ground, but once in the air it flies very rapidly.
page 206
When Hájí Muhammad Taqí saw this crane, he became elated, because he thought he could show his skill here.  The bird had just risen from the ground, when he fired the first shot and missed.  He fired four more times without success.  By this time the bird was high in the air, and he thought now he would surely bring it to the ground and again fired two shots and missed.  Because he disobeyed Bahá'u'lláh, he did not succeed and not a single bullet found its mark.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 16 October 1914.
__________
Obedience
During the war against a foreign nation one of the soldiers was stricken with a severe sickness.  The military doctor, observing his case, recommended him to the sentry.  "Do as I tell you," he said.  "This man will not sleep tonight.  It is the crucial night of his sickness, but tomorrow morning he will feel much better.  Nurse him very carefully and watch over him all night.  "The doctor went and after sunset the sentry came around to take his position.  After an hour or two, he saw the sick man was getting worse, bemoaning and lamenting loudly.  In order to alleviate his pain, he gave him an opium pill.  As a result of this, he slept soundly all night.  In the morning, the doctor came and saw that the condition of the patient was worse than the day before.  Not being able to explain this relapse, he sent for the sentry.  "What did you give him last night?"  "Oh! he was so frantic with pain that I gave him only a pill of opium, after which he slept quietly, all night."  "Did you think, that I, a doctor, didn't know this remedy just as well, but I did not give it to him because it would have made him worse?"  "What could I do?  On my watch-night I wanted to sleep, and this patient disturbed my sleep.  I gave him an opium pill and it served its purpose.  Tonight there will be another watchman.  If the patient is getting worse, it does not trouble me in the least."
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 August 1913.
__________
Real contentment
Once upon a time, Salmán called on Abú Dharr.  When the lunch time came around, the host brought two loaves of bread and some salt.  There was noth-
page 207
ing else in the house.  Salmán, as though talking to himself, said:  "I wish there were a little cheese!"  Abú Dharr, feeling ashamed, went out, sold his only goat, bought the cheese and brought it to the table.  The guest helped himself generously, and when he was quite satisfied, he raised his hands towards heaven and prayed:  "Blessed are those who are satisfied with very little, and are contented."  Abú Dharr, feeling the superfluity of such a prayer, said to his friend:  "If thou wert really satisfied, and contented I would now have my goat in the house!"
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 4 May 1914.
__________
Insincerity1
Once a Muslim Mullá thought that one of his fingers had become impure, because he had touched an unclean article, and consequently he thought that it must be cut off.  Passing by the butcher's shop, he stopped and asked the butcher to cut off his finger.  The butcher was astonished, and refused.  The Mullá explained his reason, and persisted in his extraordinary demand.  "All right," said the butcher at last, "put thy hand on this block of wood and I will cut off thy finger."  Then taking his large cutting knife, he brought down, with apparent force, its blunt side on the hand of the Mullá.  No sooner had the Mullá felt the harmless pain, than he pulled away his hand, while crying out and cursing the butcher for his merciless, cruel heart:  "O thou tyrant!  What have I done to thee that thou wilt thus cut my hand?" he bemoaned.  The butcher, realizing the utter weakness of the Mullá, laughingly said:  "Go to; I did not harm thy hand.  Thou coward, I just tested thee to see whether thou art made of heroic stuff."  Many people think it is easy to walk in the footsteps of the Apostles, but it is most difficult, it is the task of the superman.  Only those are able to do this who are awakened with the outpourings of the new spiritual consciousness in this age.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 6 June 1914.
__________
A thankful subject and his king
A great king walking in his garden one day noticed a man, about ninety years old, planting some trees.  The king asked what he was doing and the old man answered that he was planting date seeds.  "How long before they will bear fruit?" asked the king.  "Twenty years," the old man answered.  "But you will not live to enjoy the fruit, why then should you plant these trees?" said the king.  The man answered:  "The last generation planted trees that bore fruit for my benefit, so it is now my duty to plant for the benefit of the next generation."
The king was pleased at this answer so gave the man a piece of money.  The gardener fell on his knees and thanked him.  The king asked, "Why do you kneel before me?"  "Because, your majesty, not only have I had the pleasure or gift of planting these seeds but they have already borne fruit, since you gave me this money."  This so pleased the king he gave the man another piece of money.
Again the old gardener knelt, saying, "Again I kneel to thank your majesty.  Most trees will bear fruit only once, while these trees of mine have already borne two crops-since you give me two pieces of money."
The king smiled and asked, "How old are you?"  The man answered, "I am twelve years old."  "How can that be, you are surely a very old man?"  The gardener answered, "In the days of the king your predecessor, the people were in a most unhappy state of constant warfare and trouble, so I cannot include that as a part of my life.  But since your majesty came to rule, the people
page 208
are happy, contented and at peace.  Therefore, as it is but twelve years since your gracious reign began, I am only twelve years old."  This pleased the king so very much that, perforce, he gave the old man another piece of money, saying, "I shall have to leave you now, for your words please me so greatly that if I listen to you longer I shall become a pauper!"
From Daily Lessons Received in Acca, p. 44.
__________
A thief
There is a Persian story of a thief who, in order to rob a certain house, went to work to undermine the foundation.  The owner of the house happened to be on the roof and looking down discovered the thief and asked what he was doing.  The man replied, "I am trumpeting."  "Trumpeting!" exclaimed the owner, "Why you are not making any noise."  "Oh no," answered the thief, "you will hear the noise tomorrow!"
Lesson:  You are shouting although you are silent; but your words will be heard in the future.  The Words of Christ were not heard until three hundred years after his death.
From Daily Lessons Received in Acca, p. 40.
__________
The bitter melon
A master had a slave who was completely devoted to him.  One day he gave the slave a melon which when cut open looked most ripe and delicious.  The slave ate one piece, then another and another with great relish (the day being warm) until nearly the whole melon had disappeared.  The master, picking up the last slice, tasted it and found it exceedingly bitter and unpalatable.  "Why, it is bitter!  Did you not find it so?" he asked the servant.  "Yes, my Master," the slave replied, "it was bitter and unpleasant, but I have tasted so much sweetness from thy hand that one bitter melon was not worth mentioning."
From Ten Days in the Light of Akka, p. 109.
__________
Lest we forget
A certain king had a subject who having by a heroic action rescued the king from a great peril, was raised to a position of honour in the royal court.  Here he continued to please the king and finally came to occupy an apartment in the palace close to the imperial chambers.  The other courtiers of the king naturally became very jealous and lost no opportunity of carrying tales to the king, seeking to lower his opinion of the fortunate subject.  One day they reported to the king that this man was unfaithful and dishonourable; that each night after everything was quiet in the palace, it was his custom to go stealthily to a room in a remote corner of the palace carrying a bundle of stolen valuables which he hid there.  The curiosity of the king was aroused.  He watched and found the report true.  Thereupon, he summoned his retinue and next evening when the subject had gone to the room as usual, the king quickly followed, knocked upon the door and demanded entrance.  When the door opened, nothing was seen in the room but a dilapidated bed, some old clothes and the suspected servant.  "What does this mean?" demanded the king, "Why do you come here like a thief every night and what do you bring in the bundle you carry?"  "O King!" replied the subject, "Thou hast blessed me with every gift and kindness, far more indeed than I can ever deserve.  By thee I have been raised from poverty and lowliness to greatness and honour.  Knowing this and fearing I may grow negligent and fail to appreciate thy bounty and love, I come here each night to pray God that I shall ever remain grateful to thee for thy goodness; bringing with me my old peasant clothes,
page 209
which I put on and then sleep in the humble bed in which I slept when thy love and mercy first lifted me up from my lowly state.  Thus am I taught gratitude and appreciation of thy loving kindness."
From Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 109.
__________
A miracle of Bahá'u'lláh in Baghdád
There was a man in Baghdád who was the chief of a thousand warriors.  These men were not in the regular army, but the Government gave the chief $2,000 a month to divide amongst them with the stipulation that whenever war broke out, this chief with his one thousand strong warriors would join the army.  But instead of paying two dollars to his men monthly, he would give them each one dollar and pocket the balance.  He abused his soldiers continually.  He had also ten coloured men in his personal service, but treated them shamefully.  He would say:  "As the coloured people are more faithful, therefore I employ them."  One day this man with his evil reputation came to see Bahá'u'lláh and afterward came frequently.  He gave ear to all his advices and exhortations.  Little by little the magical change was wrought; and one day he called together his thousand men and told them that for several years past he had been depriving them every month of half their pay, but that now he had realized his mistake and sought their pardon.  From now on they were to receive their full pay of two dollars a month.  His men were wild with joy and from that moment they nicknamed him, "The-darling-of-our-heart."  Then he went to his home and called together his ten Negro servants and told them he was extremely sorry for his treatment of them, that he now knew better; that he would try to amend the past by being kind to them and would treat them as if they were his real sons.  Often I called upon him and enjoyed the intimate relation which existed between this man and his "Negro sons".  They adored him.  Then, before his death, he incorporated a clause in his will that his "Negro sons" should be free, and bequeathed to them a quarter of all his possessions.
By relating to you this story I want to impress upon your minds what miracles the love of Bahá'u'lláh can accomplish.  This man was not a Bahá'í-he did not believe in Bahá'u'lláh-he simply loved him.  We who believe in him must most naturally do a hundred times more than this simple man.  We must be ever ready to sacrifice our lives through the power of faith.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, to H. M., June, 1913.
__________
Useless meditation
Once there was a man who had a Negro servant.  His name was Kafúr.  Having decided to make a journey, he bought a horse, and took Kafúr with him.  After travelling all day, they reached a small ruined caravanserai, and realizing how tired they were they resolved to pass the night here, and refresh with sleep their weary bodies and continue their journey the next morning.  As that locality was lately infested with robbers, they decided that the master should sleep until midnight, while Kafúr kept guard over the horse.  Then he (Kafúr) would sleep in turn and the master would sit awake.  After their supper the master slept, but after an hour he awoke and asked:  "Kafúr, what are you doing?"  He (Kafúr) answered:  "I am meditating!"  "On what are you meditating?"  "I am meditating on the subject of-Why God has fashioned the edges of these thistles so sharp and cutting."  "Very good!" the master chuckled to himself as he drew his head under the blanket, "continue to meditate.  That is a good subject."
page 210
Again he awoke half an hour before midnight and asked Kafúr pleasantly:  "On what are you meditating now?"  "O Master!  I am meditating as to who is going to carry on his back tomorrow morning the saddle and the bridle."
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 23 October 1913.
__________
Selfish prayer
It is said that once a Muslim, a Christian and a Jew were rowing in a boat.  Suddenly a tempest arose and the boat was tossed on the crest of the waves and their lives were in danger.  The Muslim began to pray:  "O God!  Drown this infidel of a Christian!"  The Christian supplicated the Almighty:  "O Father!  Send to the bottom of the deep this Muslim!"  They observed the Jew was not offering any prayer, and therefore asked him:  "Why do you not pray for relief?"  He answered, "I am praying.  I am asking the Lord to answer the prayers of both of you!"
Told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 20 October 1914.
__________
The theologian at sea
Once there was a theologian who took a sea trip.  While he was walking on the deck and watching the calm sea, the captain passed by and inquired about his health.  Our friend was so full of his theology that he asked the captain:  "Do you know theology?"  He answered:  "No."  "Then," our student declared with much pompous dignity, "half of your life is lost."  The captain did not answer him, but continued his walk.  Another day the sea became very stormy and the ship was in danger of being wrecked.  The captain called on the theologian and found him prostrated with sickness.  "Do you know how to swim?" he asked.  "No."  "Then, all your life is lost!" the captain roared at him.
Told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 September 1913.
__________
The camel and the cannon
Muhammad 'Alí Páshá had a big, fat camel.  When the Hájís started on their long pilgrimage to Mecca through the desert, he ordered a rapid-fire gun to be mounted on the back of the camel and fired each time that they halted.  The ear of the camel was so accustomed to the thundering noise of the cannon that although it was fired on its back, it never
page 211
moved.  Because this camel performed such an important service and carried such a heavy load, the Páshá had ordered that it could graze through anybody's farm without any hindrance.  Having reached a station, the camel entered the farm of a poor farmer.  In his absence he had left a young boy to drive away the animals.  On seeing the camel the boy started to scare it away by firing in the air with a small revolver.  "What are you doing, my boy!" a Hájí asked.  I want to scare away this camel.  "O, don't trouble yourself.  On the back of this camel a cannon is fired twice daily, and it does not move.  Do not expect to scare him away with the sound of a small revolver."
Lesson:  Refutations written by the missionaries are exactly the same.
'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 10 August 1914.
__________
The dead dog
The disciples of Jesus passing along the road and seeing a dead dog, remarked how offensive and disgusting a spectacle it was.  The Christ turning to them said, "Yes, but see how white and beautiful are its teeth!"  Thus teaching that there is some good in everything.
From Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 109.
__________
The clay bird
In the Qur'án are many things referring to Christ not mentioned in the Gospel.  For instance:  It is said that Christ took a bit of clay and shaped it into the form of a bird.  Then he blew upon it, and it flew away.
The interpretation of this is that the bird symbolizes an earthly man, who received spiritual education through the Christ.  The story says:  "He blew upon it, and it flew away."  This means that the man received the breath of Life Eternal, and through this enlightenment, soared into the Heaven of Knowledge.
From My visit to Acca.  M.A.L.
__________
The need of one language
At the city gate four travellers sat, a Persian, a Turk, an Arab and a Greek.  They were hungry and wanted their evening meal.  So one was selected to buy for them all.  But among them they could not agree as to what should be bought.  The Persian said ángúr, the Turk 'uzúm, the Arab wanted ánib and the Greek clamoured for staphylion green and black.  They quarrelled and wrangled and almost came to blows in trying to prove that the particular desire of each was the right food.  When all of a sudden there passed a donkey ladened with grapes.  Each man sprang to his feet and with eager hands pointed out:  "See 'uzúm!" said the Turk.  "See ánib!" said the Arab.  "See ángúr!" said the Persian.  And the Greek said, "See staphylion!"  Then they bought their grapes and were at peace.
From Ten Days in the Light of Acca.
__________
The Arab and the king
It is said that at one time a king went out travelling incognito.  He put on an humble suit of clothes and started on his way in a scorching desert and finally reached the door of an Arab tent.  The Arab finding the man exhausted from heat and hunger dragged him under the shade.  When the king was revived he asked the Arab what he had to eat and drink.  "I have a goat skin of wine and a little goat," the Arab answered.  "Very well, bring the wine and kill the goat to be cooked," he said.  The wine was brought.  When the king drank one cup of wine he looked at the Arab and said:  "Do you know who I am?"  "No."  "Then you must know that I am a sol-
page 212
dier in the king's army.  "The Arab was glad to entertain a brave man.  The king drank another cup of wine.  "Do you know who I am?"  "Who are you?"  "I am a minister in the king's council chamber."  "I am delighted to receive such a distinguished statesman."  A third cup was taken.  "Do you know who I am?"  "Well!"  "I am the king himself."  The Arab could not stand it any longer.  He arose and took the goat-skin of wine from him.  "Why do you do this?" the guest asked astonished.  "Because I believe if you drank another cup you would be the Prophet of God, and a fifth cup would raise you to the station of God, so it is better for you to stop."
'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 5 August 1913.
__________
Story of Jesus and the poor man who wanted to marry a princess
It is said that Jesus entered a village.  In those days many houses were broken into and everything carried away by the robbers; hence the authorities had issued an order that none of the inhabitants should entertain strangers in their homes, fearing that they might be in alliance with the robbers outside.  Jesus stopped before the house of a very poor old woman, and knocked at the door.  The old woman opened the door, and saw that Jesus was seeking a shelter.  Looking into the face of Jesus, and beholding his gentleness, humility and spirituality, she did not have the heart to refuse him and send him away.  Therefore with the utmost respect she invited him to enter the house.  From his speech and conduct, the old woman intuitively felt that she was entertaining more than an ordinary mortal.  She came forward and kissing his hand said:  "Save my son, I have no one else in this world.  Up to a short time ago he has been sober, intelligent and industrious, and his income is our sole support.  But now he has become moody, morose and irritable.  Whereas formerly ours was a home of joy and happiness, now it is changed into a home of mourning and sadness.  He works all day, but when he comes home he does not speak, and moves restlessly all night in his bed.  To all my pleading questions, he turns away his face and does not answer."
Jesus said:  "Send him to me.  I will speak with him!"  After sunset, the son returned to the house.  His mother went to him and said, "We have a guest tonight who is noble and spiritual.  If you have any trouble go and tell it to him.  I feel sure he can help you.  "At first he did not want to go, but the solicitous mother persuaded him to do so.  At last he consented.  Entering the room, he found Jesus sitting on the floor.  Immediately Jesus was on his feet, welcoming the wayward son.  After a few moments of intimate talk, Jesus asked the boy:  "Well, my son, tell me, what troubles you?  What is the cause of your worry?"  He replied:  "Nothing."  "You are not telling the truth.  I know you are labouring under the weight of a great pain, my son.  Tell me the cause of your trouble.  I am interested in your welfare and my heart is full of sympathy for you.  Rest assured that I will not divulge your secret to any human being.  I will keep it to myself and will do my utmost to lighter the burden.  Am I not your kind father and you my beloved son?"  "My pain is irremediable!" the boy said, softening the tone of his answer somewhat under the loving gaze of Jesus.  "I will find a remedy for it," Jesus answered.  "Oh! I know so well that no one is able to take away this load from my heart."  "I am able!"  "But you are powerless.  You are a poor man like us.  You have no remedy for my malady."  "I am powerful, and I am a physician for all manner of diseases!"  "This is impossible.  There is no man living who can claim so much," he said, yet impressed
page 213
by the gentle authoritative tone of Jesus.  "Come!  Come!  Tell me the secret of your heart!"  "But I feel ashamed to confess it to you."  "Did I not tell you that you are my son?  And why should there be anything but perfect trust between the son and the father?"  "But I feel it is not proper to speak about these things.  Beside, I cannot find words to adequately express my inmost feelings and then I am afraid I shall be misunderstood."  "No!  No!  You are my real son!  I will surely understand you.  Be not afraid.  Be frank!"  After a moment of silence he said:  "In the neighbourhood of this village there is the summer palace of the king.  Once I saw his daughter walking in the meadows.  I loved her at first sight.  She is the daughter of a mighty king, and I am a poor, miserable thorn picker.  I cannot say more!"  And he began to weep.  His Holiness consoled him and said:  "Rest assured, God willing, your hope will be realized."
In brief, after awhile Jesus so arranged everything that the king consented to give his daughter to the poor thorn-picker.  For days the royal preparations went on, and the date for the marriage was fixed.  All the time the boy was very happy:  he thought he was in a fairy dreamland; he could not believe that this was all real.  When he entered the marriage room, and saw all around the exquisite decorations and furnishings, and then looked into the face of the beautiful bride-suddenly a thought sprang up in his mind:  "This man (Jesus) has been the instrument of giving to me this undreamed of felicity, this wonderful bride for whom I was pining in my solitude in the wilderness; he has made it possible for me to enjoy all this luxury and comfort.  If he were so powerful to prepare all these things for me, a poor peasant boy, why should he not have done the same for himself?  If he could spread such a banquet of rejoicing for me, he could do it for himself a hundred times better.  Notwithstanding this ideal power, he is still walking in the wilderness, eating the grass, sleeping on the ground, sitting in the darkness and living altogether a life of poverty.  "No sooner had this thought come to his mind than he turned his face to his bride, and said:  "Stay where you are; I have important business to attend to.  I shall return as soon as I have finished my work."  This said, he ran out of the room and hastened toward the wilderness.
After much search, he found Jesus sitting on a rock.  Impetuously he prostrated on the ground, and kissed his feet and hands.  "O my Lord!  Thou wert not just towards me.  Thou hast not treated me fairly."  "How is that?  Why so?  Have I not realized for thee the highest desire of your heart?"  "Yes, yes!  But you have desired for me that which you would not desire for yourself.  Surely, surely, you must possess something by far greater and more important than that which you bestowed upon me.  If these things were acceptable and worthy of possession, you would have chosen them for yourself.  Therefore, it is self-evident that you have something more valuable and precious than all these things.  Oh! I feel so sad and ashamed, because you have granted me those things which are not worthy of your own consideration!"
His Holiness smiled and said:  "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, thou art telling the truth.  But hast thou the capability and worthiness to possess that pearl of Great Price?"  "O my Lord and my hope!  I will strive and pray to become worthy!"  "Art thou able to leave all these things behind?"  "Yes."  "Then verily I declare unto thee, I possess the mysteries of the Kingdom, which are the Knowledge of God, the Love of God and the Guidance of God.  These are greater than all worldly possessions.  Now if thou art willing to possess the
page 214
jewels of the Kingdom, follow me.  "He followed Christ till they joined the apostles.  Then addressing his disciples, he introduced to them his new follower:  "I have had a treasure which was hidden in this village.  I have just now unearthed it.  Here is my treasure."
Told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 3 July 1914.
__________
Justice
A certain ruler wished to appoint one of his subjects to a high office, so in order to train him, the ruler cast him into prison and caused him to suffer much.  The man was surprised at this for he expected great favours.  The ruler had him taken from prison and beaten with sticks.  This greatly astonished the man for he thought the ruler loved him.  After this he was hanged on the gallows until he was nearly dead.  After he recovered he asked the ruler:  "If you love me, why did you do all this?"  The ruler replied:  "I wish to make you Prime Minister.  By having gone through these ordeals you are better fitted for that office.  I wish you to know how it is yourself.  When you are obliged to punish, you will know how it feels to endure these things.  I love you so that I wish you to become perfect."
God sometimes causes us to suffer much and to have many misfortunes that we may become strong in His Cause.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, 10 October 1912.
Story told by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl-an incident in his prison life
Longing for martyrdom
When he was imprisoned in Tihrán with eleven others, there was an old man among them by the name of Mírzá Muhammad Ridá.  He was well known for three rare qualities, firmness, fearlessness and truthfulness.  He defied all the prison authorities by his courage; awed all the enemies by his firmness and set at naught the intrigues of all the foes through his truthfulness.  'Whenever," Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl said, "one of the ministers of the court, Hájibu'd-Dawlih, came to the prison to investigate the conditions of some one, Mírzá Muhammad Ridá would run to him and keep on talking into his ears for a few minutes with great earnestness.  Finally Hájibu'd-Dawlih would turn to him and with a despairing look say:  "Sir, this is impossible.  I cannot do it.  Why did you not ask the Prince Náyibu's-Saltanih about it?  He can do it.  He is the one in authority."  At last one day we asked him, "What is this you are constantly asking the Hájibu'd-Dawlih whenever he comes to the prison, and which he so emphatically refuses you?"  He said:  "I ask and plead with him to sentence me to death.  I tell him I am an old man; I am of no good to the world.  I want to bathe my body in blood for the sake of Bahá'u'lláh.  Please!  Please!  I beg of you to do something for me.  Is this too much of a favour that I ask of you?  Are you not kind enough to fulfil this last wish of an old man?  Praise be to God, that you are an influential man-but he does not listen to me, and answers me loudly the way you have all heard.  "At another time the chief of the jailers passed by him and scornfully pointed out his long hair.  "Why do you keep your hair so long?  What for?" he asked, and laughed.  Mírzá Muhammad Ridá asked him:  "What is that insignia on thy breast?"  "It is the sign of my office," he answered, with great flourish.  "So is this"-and he pointed to his hair-"the sign of a Bahá'í!"
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 4 August 1913.


IX:16, 31 December 1918
page 179
"The war was not an act of God"
I hope that the war may soon come to an end, so that I may again look in the faces of the believers.  It will be a great joy to me.  This war lasted very long, but it had to come.  The corrupt world needed such a purification.  The war was not an act of God, but rather the results of the accumulation of our own evil deeds.  Because peoples and nations did not act in accordance with justice, and tyrannized innocent men, this war had to sweep away all remnants of autocracy, absolutism and militarism, and usher in an era of democracy, equality before the law, and international peace."
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoken 19 October 1918 to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb and recorded in a letter to Miss Juliet Thompson just received in America.


IX:17, 19 January 1919
page 185
Extracts from the Diary of Major Wellesly Tudor-Pole, Holy Land, 1918
Edited by Claudia Stuart Coles, Washington, D.C.
Mount of Olives, Jerusalem,
16 November 1918.
From my room in the great German Hospice on this Holy Hill, I have the most wonderful view that it has ever been my lot to gaze upon.  There is a pillared arched balcony outside my windows which makes a superb frame for the picture.
In the foreground olive trees clothe the hill which slopes down toward a most fascinating middle distance, made up of rocky undulating desert plateaux.  These lend themselves in some unexplained fashion to curiously beautiful sun and shadow effects, so that the view changes almost from minute to minute.
Beyond again lie the volcanic mountainous erections amongst which lie the (supposed) ruins of Sodom, while Gomorrah lies away to the west down the plain.
It is as if these hills had been "dancing together with joy" and in the midst of all the gayety and motion, they had become petrified suddenly without warning.  They are fantastic yet beautiful, weird yet ever changing, although one never loses the feeling of eternal petrifaction, which is not only apparent, for it is a geological fact.
Beyond these crater-like erections, and far, far below them, lies the Dead Sea, green-blue, clear as crystal, reflecting the mountains of Moab which rise steeply from the water high up, until they form a skyline background for the whole picture.
Away to the left lies the Jordan valley, and one can trace the river wending its way northward like a blue ribbon among the foothills.  But it is not the physical scenery that holds one spell bound, it is the atmosphere.  It comes resistlessly up towards one until one is bathing in its strange magnetism.
Ancient majesty and strength flow out from the mountains of Moab, mystery rises from the waters of the Dead Sea, beauty flows forth and upwards from the Jordan river, tragedy and joy rise up together from the lonely solitudes of the desert, and the craters in the middle distance.  All these seem to blend into one resistless wave of colour and significance which sweeps up towards one through the olive groves to the Mount of Olives itself.
No photograph or picture or description can possibly convey one-thousandth part of the strange charm of that which lies before me as I write.
The past week has seemed like a dream.  On the 11 November 1918, at 4 p.m., the news of the Armistice reached me as I was sitting in my office
page 186
at the Savoy. ...  I gave a small dinner to my staff ... and having toasted those present, I spoke for awhile.  The following is a partial summary:
"Many of you do not at present realize that we stand at perhaps the most remarkable point in the history of the world.  One era has closed before our eyes; it is closed in the midst of carnage and tumult.  We are now actually witnessing the birth of a New Day, a Day during which the human race will be enlightened, transformed, regenerated.  Do not let this hour pass lightly; enjoy the outward triumph of the Armistice, but let your thoughts run deep as well.  Reaction from this moment of exultation is inevitable.  We have all lived the past few years under conditions of an ever growing strain.  The strain has lifted.  If an elastic band is held taut for some time, when released it will be found that its elasticity has vanished, it will hang limp and almost lifeless.
"Many years will pass before the racial mind will regain its inherent elasticity; meanwhile, many tests will come to you and me.  The war is over, but we must look forward to many months filled with revolutions-volcanic eruptions both within the racial mind and in the earth's crust.
"Those of us who have looked death in the face during the past few years, and who realize something of the tragedy that war brings in its wake, have determined to carry out two resolutions:  We will bring home to our children and to those around us some idea of what war really means. ...  We will create in the minds of the next generation such a detestation of human warfare, its horror, its uselessness, that the tradition of peace universal shall grow up firmly implanted in the human consciousness of the future, and war will become inconceivable.  Secondly, we have determined that the world of our generation shall be lifted out of gloom and sorrow towards peace and steadfast happiness.
"Each one of us can do more than he realizes to bring joy into the lives of those around him, and joy spreads.  This means that we must go deep down into our beings to find that joy which is the spiritual heritage of the whole race, which only waits to be tapped in order to release the waters of true happiness.  Vast problems await solution, the world is upside down; revolutions, bloody and bloodless, lie immediately ahead.  It is only for a time that this revolution is taking the place of evolution, for nothing can now stem the great wages of spiritual energy waiting to flood through the world of men. ...  After destruction, reconstruction!  We can each in our humble sphere help forward the building of a new and better world upon the basis of sure foundations.  Let us be very sure of our own foundations before we begin to build, either within or without, and all will be well."
I came up to Jerusalem on 13 November 1918.
The drive from Ludd (Lydda, birthplace of St. George) to Jerusalem is so splendid that I never grow tired of it, although I now know every inch of the road. ...
__________
Sunday, 17 November 1918.
Today I attended the Peace Celebration Service at St. George's Cathedral, Jerusalem.
The church was packed-half the congregation were officers and men.  Col. Storrs read the lessons.
All the Religions whose headquarters are in Jerusalem were represented, and a Scotch army chaplain preached in English and Arabic.  The Grand Rabbi arrived in rich furs and chain of office.  The Grand Muftí (Muslim), with flowing beard and snow white head dress (a broad minded, fine old fellow); the Greek Patriarch in black vestments and jewelled cross upon his breast; the Armenian Patriarch, also in black with a
page 187
mosaic in jewels hanging around his neck; the Russian Orthodox Arch Priest sat near the altar; the Coptic Bishop sat under the organ; the Roman Church was not represented, but Abyssinian priests put in an appearance and were evidently greatly puzzled by the organ strains. ...  To have been present at such a service on Peace Sunday, here, in the religious centre of the world, was a never-to-be-forgotten privilege.
...
__________
Mount Carmel Hospice, Haifa.
18 November 1918.
This morning I left Jerusalem travelling by car and train, arriving here at 8 p.m., having started at 7 a.m.
I have just sent word to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, asking to be allowed to present myself tomorrow, and await his answer. ...
__________
Prison House of Bahá'u'lláh, 'Akká,
20 November 1918.
How often have I pictured myself in these surroundings.  I have longed to be here ever since those distant days in 1908 when I first heard of the Bahá'ís and their Masters (The Báb, Bahá'u'lláh, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá) ... when I was in Constantinople. ...
I arrived at Haifa at 8 p.m. ... Immediately on arrival I sent a messenger to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's house further up the mountain, asking to be allowed to present myself.
Two of the younger Persian believers came down at once to see me, one was Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, one of the editors of the Star of the West.  They told me the Master was at 'Akká and was not expected back for several days.  Next morning I hired a two-horse carriage and leaving my servant and the luggage at the hotel, set off for 'Akká.  The journey has been described too often to bear repetition.  It is perfectly fascinating.  There is no road between Haifa and 'Akká, and the light railway has been torn up, so one drives for two and one-half hours around the bay on the hard sand close to the blue, blue sea.  Half the time the carriage is in the sea, because the sand is harder where the waves lap over it.
From a distance the ancient walled city of the Crusades looks most picturesque, standing right up out of the water, and reminds one a little of a miniature Istanbul.  But 'Akká from the inside is an awful place, full of smells and slums and dirt.
Its one future of beauty is the sweet and abundant water supply, brought into the city from the distant hills along a Roman aqueduct.  At last we reach the Master's house, close to the sea wall, but shut in on all sides by slums and courts.  A long stone stairway leads up to the living-room in this prison house where Bahá'u'lláh spent the last years of his life and where his son has lived on and off for forty years.
The Master was standing at the top waiting to greet me with that sweet smile and cheery welcome for which he is famous.  For seventy-four long years 'Abdu'l-Bahá has lived in the midst of tragedy and hardship, yet nothing has robbed nor can rob him of his cheery optimism, spiritual insight and keen sense of humour.
He was looking little older than when I saw him seven years ago, and certainly more vigorous than when in England after the exhausting American trip.  His voice is as strong as ever, his step virile, his hair and beard are (if possible) more silver-white than before.
He is delighted to welcome the change of regime, but I could detect the tragic note, for if the British occupation had taken place ten years ago, he would have been able to travel throughout the Near and Middle Vast spreading the glad tidings of his father's mission.
page 192
Teaching the Bahá'í Cause has never been allowed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Turkish Empire until now. ...
... He still, however, spends a few weeks now and again in the 'Akká prison house, that has now become his property. ...
After lunch 'Abdu'l-Bahá drove me out to the Garden Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh about two miles from the city. ...  He approached the Tomb in complete silence, praying with bent head-a wonderfully venerable figure in his white turban and flowing grey robe.
On reaching the portal to the Tomb itself, the Master prostrated himself at length, and kissed the steps leading to the inner chamber.  There was a majestic humility about the action that baffles description. ...
Then we took tea in the garden, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá told many stories about Bahá'u'lláh, his superhuman endurance and his wonderful teaching.
When we returned to 'Akká, the Persian Colony, consisting of perhaps thirty-five persons had assembled, and we sat around the room drinking tea whilst 'Abdu'l-Bahá described his visit to Clifton [England-home of the writer] and the people he had met there.
... Then I went to pay my respects to the Military Governor, curious to discover what he knew of, and felt about the greatest religious personage in Asia today.  The Governor was full of a demonstration he was arranging for the morrow in celebration of World Peace.  A band was coming, the notables of 'Akká were to parade around the town, the Governor would answer cheers and make a little speech from the balcony of the Town Hall.
page 193
A notable occasion for 'Akká, freed after all these hundreds of years from the cruel Turkish yoke.
I enquired whether 'Abdu'l-Bahá had been invited to the function.  "Do you mean 'Abbás Effendi?  Well, no, I don't think we've asked him.  Perhaps he should have an invitation."
(He who has worked night and day for over fifty years to propagate the ideals of World Peace and Brotherhood, whose devoted followers number millions, whose Cause is doing so much to lessen religious discord in the East-he had not even received an invitation to take part in the Peace celebrations of his native town, because, as it turned out, his name did not appear on the list of the local notables prepared by the municipal authorities for the guidance of the Governor.  "A prophet in his own country" with a vengeance!)
I expressed surprise-shock had driven indignation from me-and an invitation was duly dispatched.  Then I returned to the Prison house and spent the evening with the Master, supping with him and answering his questions about the new administration.
Then I slept, in the room next 'Abdu'l-Bahá's (which was Bahá'u'lláh's before him)-simple attics with stone floors and practically no furniture.  'Abdu'l-Bahá still gives away all money, and lives the life of poverty himself.
Before breakfast the house was filled with believers who had come to receive the morning blessing.
I had brought 'Abdu'l-Bahá letters from all parts of the world, and he spent the morning dictating replies for me to take away.  I gave him the Persian camel-hair cloak, and it greatly pleased him, for the winter is here, and he had given away the only cloak he possessed.  I made him promise to keep this one
page 194
through the winter anyway, and I trust he does.
At lunch we had another long talk; then came the leave-taking and the Master's blessing.  He sent greetings by me to all his friends in Egypt, Europe, England and America!
As I, drove off on my return to Haifa, I caught a glimpse of the Master, staff in hand, wending his way through the awful 'Akká slums, on his way to attend the local Peace celebrations. ...  He stands out a majestic figure. ...
And here I am again on Mount Carmel, writing this letter with the moonlit sea before me.  I have paid my visit to the Governor of Haifa, and tomorrow am free to climb Mount Carmel, to visit the Tomb of the Báb, and to spend one night in the house of the Master among his devoted friends.  He himself will not return here for another week.
He is helping to solve religious problems that have arisen in the 'Akká area as the result of the British occupation.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is quite satisfied that an era of peace is immediately ahead, and that the vast outstanding problems left to us as an aftermath of war, will gradually be solved, so that the prophetic utterances of his father will become clearly manifest during the present generation. ...
'Abdu'l-Bahá looks to America as the nation which, being more disinterested than any European Power, will be able to help forward the realization of the world-wide unity and peace.
He anticipates a spiritual revival, not merely one of religion, but possibly one outside organized religion altogether. ...
It is hoped that we may shortly look for the publication of the complete works of Bahá'u'lláh, and America will probably take the lead in this work.  Meanwhile, it would seem absolutely essential that those interested in the matter should collect the authorized writings and should make every effort to see that a really accurate history of the Movement from the beginning of the last century to the present time should be published.


IX:17, 19 January 1919
page 188
Letter from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb to the Editor of the Christian Commonwealth, London
(Also sent for publication to the Star of the West.)
Haifa, Palestine, 2 December 1918.
Dear Sir,
Probably it is impossible to express in so many words the feeling of a man who has been compelled to live for years in a dark, wet and narrow cell, with no companion except the four walls and the occasional visits of the rude and cruel
page 189
gaoler,-and then this man suddenly taken out to the top of a mountain, the sun shining in all its glory, the birds singing hymns of praise in the swaying branches, the green and luxuriant forest girdling the surrounding hills, all nature aglow with the first flush of spring and friends on every side pushing forward to shake his hands and inquire about his health.  The man is astonished, is confused, he cannot believe himself, he rubs his eyes, looks around with wonder, tries to realize the change and thinks this is in all probability a trick, a deception of legerdemain1 which will soon vanish and then he has to go back to his cold, rayless, damp jail.
Such were our emotions when on the memorable day of 23 September, at 3 p.m. the British and Indian Cavalry forces captured Haifa and 'Akká and freed us from the decadent and ignorant rule of Turkey.  For years we had not seen an Englishman and we were forbidden to speak the language even in our homes.  We had almost forgotten that there were countries like England, France and America, as no news reached us from those regions.  Daily we were fed on so many falsehoods and lies that we could digest it no longer. ...
...
But the sudden and unexpected attack and capture of Haifa by the victorious British Army under the matchless leadership of General Allenby, threw an electric wave of joy through all parts of Syria, set at liberty hundreds of thousands of men and opened the doors of correspondence and communication with our friends abroad.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, after four years of silence and isolation, was again pleased to meet and speak with men who understand his ideas and respect his convictions.  English officers of all ranks, Major General, Brigadier General, Colonels, Majors, Lieutenants, Captains and non-commissioned men and privates have called on him and drank tea with him and listened reverently to his words of wisdom.  The military Governors of 'Akká and Haifa have often met him; the former being his guest at dinner.  Once about eight members of the Australian Flying Corps, who have their aerodrome at the foot of Mount Carmel, were his guests all day in Bahjí, near 'Akká.  They visited the tomb of Bahá'u'lláh, listened to the lecture of 'Abdu'l-Bahá on the history of this Cause and its principles, and left in the evening in their large auto with glad hearts and beaming faces.  Never were they so royally received in Palestine!  They were overwhelmed with the extreme kindness and attention of the Master.  Surely they will never forget what they heard and saw, and they will write home about their unique experiences and relate the same to their friends. ...
Since the beginning of the war, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has been subjected to manifest
page 190
trials and difficulties, but through them his invincible spirit shone forth with greater brilliancy, his complete trust in God was a source of comfort to others, and his good-humour saved all of us from a bitter pessimism which was too prevalent at the time.
It has been my good luck not only to be with him during these dreadful years of the world war, but was constituted a member of his party when he was travelling through Europe and America, and thus I can say from my own experience that the Master teaches us to look on the bright side of life with intelligence and understanding, not to moan and grumble but bear our burden with a serene nature, to be firm and resolute, far-seeing and resourceful.  His talks and advice imparted happiness to those who were laden with the burden of sorrow.  He was ever ready to help the distressed and the needy; more than often he would deprive the members of his own family of the bare necessities of life that the hungry man be fed and the naked be clothed.
With unconquerable determination and wonderful resourcefulness, he was divinely assisted to protect and keep alive the almost 300 members of the Persian Bahá'í Colony in Haifa and 'Akká.  For three years, he spent months in Tiberias and Adasíyyih, supervising extensive works of agriculture and raising wheat, corn and other foodstuffs for the maintenance of all of us, and more to distribute among the many starving Muslim and Christian families, many of whom gave eloquent testimony to his all-inclusive charity and philanthropy.  I assure you that were it not for his provision and ceaseless attention to the works of agriculture, none of us would have survived the war, for with an awful famine raging in all cities and towns, one could not find bread and even in case a loaf of black, coarse barley was found, such a high price was asked for it that one could not find enough money to buy it.
Aside from the scarcity of food and famine, for two years all the harvests were eaten by the innumerable armies of locusts, the like of which were never witnessed by the old men of the community.  At times like unto the dark clouds they covered the face of the sky for hours.
This condition, coupled with the unprecedented extortions and looting by the Turkish officers and the extensive buying of foodstuffs by the Germans to be shipped to the "Fatherland" brought about an awful famine.  In Lebanon alone more than 100,000 people died from starvation.  In the cities men, women and children became like mere skeletons and with gaunt faces, sunken eyes, yellowed skin and bent backs walked rather like ghosts through the half-deserted streets of Beirut and Damascus, while crying pitifully for a bit of bread.  Thousands upon thousands lived for a few days on the peelings of oranges and bananas, the skin of watermelons and the grass of the country, and then died away with no one to mourn over them or bury their corpses, while other thousands who were a few steps higher were dragged down by the pitiless force of circumstances and followed the same course of inanition,1 starvation and death.  Ah, my friends!  My head burns and my eyes are wet with tears when I now think of those harrowing events.  Can I ever forget them?  It had become a usual sight to find every morning dead bodies of young girls and children along the public thoroughfare.  People looked at them and passed by.  Oh my God!  Are all feelings of pity, sympathy and love dead in us, that at the sight of suffering children and dying old men and women we stand unmoved?
This unprecedented famine lowered the standard of life, killed the finer emotions and deadened the softer sentiments.  Men become like wild beasts,
page 191
fighting without kith and kin with cruel ferocity and elemental passions.  Each, impelled by the instinct of self-preservation fought the fight to the finish, trampled on the strewn bodies of others, but none or only very few survived the beastly struggle to relate the gruesome tale.  Hunger and need forced thousands of chaste, lovely, pure girls-girls who were destined to be the future mothers of the nation-into the degrading walks of prostitution, selling their honour for a few pence-thus for a time keeping the wolf away from the door.  The awful increase in the number of prostitutes, brought down the edifice of morality, shame was banished, vice and corruption were enthroned and God totally forgotten.
Thousands of boys and girls who were as pure and beautiful as the young dawn a year ago, were now afflicted with horrible diseases, while the lack of proper nourishment, ignorance and inattention, undermined their power of resistance and carried hosts of them to an early grave.  These contagious and communicable diseases became so prevalent that the intelligent members of the various communities took alarm and notwithstanding the severe censorship of the press, the editors wrote long articles, plainly stating that the future life of the nation was in jeopardy and the spring of the vitality of the race was being rapidly poisoned.  These amazing revelations goaded the sluggish Government to open a few clinics and treat these unfortunate creatures free of charge.
With the transfer of the scene of war from the Dardanelles to Syria, the Turkish government subjected the already impoverished and depleted inhabitants to unbearable sufferings, exacting from them fines, requisitions and exorbitant taxes.  Everything was taken away from them, horses, cows, camels, donkeys, sheep, even their household furniture, such as copper and brass vases and caldrons, iron railings, mattresses, clothing, wood and fencing wires.  In fact, the majority of the shops and houses were swept clean of everything.
In brief, the past four years were unparalleled years of sufferings and hardships for the people of Syria and Palestine, and it will take a long time to remove the harsh traces of Turkish oppression, nevertheless all the people are nearly unanimous in their opinion that the chapter of lawlessness and retrogression in the Holy Land is forever closed and with the coming of the English the reign of law and the era of education and progress is inaugurated.  The flag of England is hailed as the symbol of justice and equal opportunity for all.  The Jews, the Christians and the Muslims wish England to remain here as their teacher and educator; so that they may be led by a process of evolution to the higher altitude of modern civilization, introducing new and practical methods of intensive farming and agriculture, establishing industrial plants, building railroads, founding public schools and technical institutions, developing the rich and hidden natural resources of the country and paving the way for the ultimate liberation of the soul from the narrow bounds of racial, religious and national prejudices.
For ages this sacred land of Palestine has been a battleground for the nations of the East and West.  Here they fought their battles which decided the fate of the nations lying far to the North and to the South.  The last government that controlled the political life of this country for over 500 years contributed not a blessed thing toward its internal improvements.  Now there is a general feeling amongst all the classes of Palestine that all these destructive wars and deteriorating influences must be given up for good; so that under the equitable and just administration of Great Britain the people may advance
page 192
along the line of general progress and contribute their share towards the up-building of a strong, noble and stable State.
I may be permitted to close this paper with the characteristic remark of a Muslim Shaykh, just a day after the British occupation of Haifa:  "With the coming of the English we were led from darkness into light!"  And in this short statement the feeling of the whole population was summed up.
Praying that the Christian Commonwealth may ever remain a torchbearer of truth, justice and righteousness and a harbinger of peace and conciliation amongst all nations and religions, I remain,
Your sincere servant,
Ahmad Sohráb


IX:17, 19 January 1919
page 194
News of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-letters received from Shoghi Effendi
'Akká, Palestine, 19 November 1918.
Dr Lutfu'lláh Hakim, London, England.
My dear spiritual brother,
Captain1 Tudor-Pole surprised and gladdened us with his unexpected arrival from Egypt.  My grandfather, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, was so glad to look at his radiant face and feel, from shaking his hands, the fresh fragrances of the ablazed Bahá'ís of England.  He inquired for you and was gratified to know you were all under God's protection throughout this great world war.  The Beloved has been sojourning for a month and a half at 'Akká, visiting almost daily the Tomb of his father and offering his thanksgivings for the bounty, care and protection of the Blessed Perfection.  Today Captain Tudor-Pole accompanied him to the Holy Shrine, and tomorrow the Beloved will drive with him to the Ridván, the garden in which His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh spent many days and nights.
The Master is expecting, now that the communications are restored, to hear from you frequently and directly of the progress of the Cause and the spiritual gatherings and of the concord and harmony of the souls.
I am so glad and privileged to be able
page 195
to attend to my Beloved's services after having completed my course of Arts and Sciences in the American University at Beirut.  I am so anxious and expectant to hear from you and of your services to the Cause for by transmitting them to the Beloved I shall make him happy, glad and strong.
The past four years have been years of untold calamity, of unprecedented oppression, of indescribable misery, of severe famine and distress, of unparalleled bloodshed and strife, but now that the dove of peace has returned to its nest and abode a golden opportunity has arisen for the promulgation of the Word of God.  This will be now promoted and the Message delivered in this liberated region without the least amount of restriction.  This is indeed the Era of Service.
You have undoubtedly done a large amount of work in this respect and the Beloved is eagerly awaiting its fascinating and pleasing account.
Hoping I shall hear from you and from the dear friends,
I remain, your brother in the Cause,
Shoghi.
__________
Letter addressed to Major W. Tudor-Pole, at Cairo, Egypt, by Shoghi Effendi, the grandson of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Haifa, Palestine, 17 December 1918.
My dear spiritual brother,
Your long-expected letter was heartily welcomed, so glad was the Beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá to hear from you and through you to know that the friends were all well.  In fact, a few days ago, when the Beloved was paying a visit to Colonel Staunton, the Military Governor, Captain Kerr, being in his presence, was asked whether he had any news from you, to which he replied affirmatively.  I conveyed your message of love and gratitude to the Master, and we all look forward to the time of meeting you in Haifa, this time we hope more fully.  The Beloved's health is excellent, and he reveals these days different Tablets to Persia, Europe and America.  Two Tablets have been revealed for England, the latter for Dr Esslemont, whose suppli-
page 196
cation I translated yesterday for the Master.  I quote fully this Tablet:
Tablet
To his honour Dr Esslemont-Upon him be greeting and praise!
O thou lover of all mankind!
Verily, have I chanted thy verses of praise to God, inasmuch as He hath illumined thine eyes with the light of guidance, the light of the oneness of the world of humanity; so much so that thy heart overflowed with the love of God and thy spirit was attracted by the fragrance of God, and I supplicate divine Providence that thou mayest become a torch to that gathering, so that the light of knowledge might shine out from thee, that thou mayest be confirmed to act in accordance with the significances of the Hidden Words and strengthened by God under all circumstances.
Concerning the book you are editing, send me a copy thereof. ...  Convey my greetings to the respected maidservant of God, M_____.
I pray the Lord to support thee in the service of all humankind, irrespective of race or religion.  Nay rather, thou shouldst deal with all according to the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, which are like unto life to this Glorious Age.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
The Beloved was very glad to hear from Miss Rosenberg, whose letter you had sent but without any supplication of yours enclosed.  I wonder whether you enclosed any supplication or not.
The Master a few days ago was invited by Colonel Staunton to assist at a meeting of the different religious heads of Haifa, to institute a relief work for the poor of Haifa.  The Beloved responded and then after many discussions, when the time of donation came, the Governor announced that although a poor man, yet he would give five English pounds for each of the three religious denominations.  Major Nott followed with nine, then publicly and directly the Governor declared that he had the honour of announcing that His Excellency 'Abbás Effendi ('Abdu'l-Bahá) had kindly given the noble sum of fifty Egyptian pounds for the poor, at which all present clapped.  Quite a high standard for the Muftí and the Archbishop of Haifa to follow.
The Master uttered the final word of prayer at a public and immense gathering just given to celebrate the end of the war.  This is the text of the prayer:
Prayer
O Omnipotent God!  Verily, the pavilion of Justice has been raised in the Holy Land, extending from East to West.  We thank Thee and we praise Thee for the establishment of this just and equitable Sovereignty, and this mighty Government which strives for the comfort of its people and the safety of its subjects.  O Almighty God!  Confirm the Greatest Emperor George V, through Thy divine confirmations, and strengthen him by Thy merciful power, and perpetuate his protecting shadow upon this noble land.  This we ask through Thy help, assistance and protection.  Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent, the Exalted, the Omniscient and the Generous!
Space forces me to stop, awaiting your news.
Yours very faithfully,
Shoghi Rabbání


IX:17, 19 January 1919
page 199
Recent Tablets revealed for Bahá'ís of Egypt and Persia
Tablet to Egypt
O ye who are enkindled with the fire of the love of God!
Ever do I inhale the fragrance of faithfulness from the rose-garden of the hearts of the believers and I was filled with joy at the receipt of the good news of the prosperity and success of that merciful community and their humility and submission towards the Cause of God.
Verily, I received a letter from his honour Áqá Muhammad Taqí, giving the glad-tidings that the friends are in the utmost of joy and fragrance.  Spiritual emotions are ever stirred in my heart and the rays of their remembrance and the heat of their love are continually reflected in my soul.  I supplicate at the threshold of the Supreme Lord to make them the signs of guidance amongst mankind and as brilliant lamps scattering their lights to all the regions. ...
page 200
Tablet to Persia
O thou kind friend and spreader of truth!
The eloquent letter of your honour received and its contents imparted the utmost joy, that, praise be to God, this unique newspaper is still being published, showing firmness and steadfastness and during the past years of revolution and commotion it failed not nor was it discontinued.  It is hoped that it may become a centre through which great and general services may be rendered to the world of humanity.  Praise be to God, that although in the past few years many newspapers stopped their publication, this newspaper, which is a well-wisher, remained firm and its issue was not brought to a close.
Should you inquire concerning the conditions of these exiled ones, praise be to God, that notwithstanding thousands of afflictions we are kept safe and guarded in the Fortress of Divine Protection.  Verily, this is a most miraculous matter!
Although the booming of cannons and the terrific noises of machine guns had thrown the world into utter commotion and earthquake in Europe and America, the voices of the members of this community were raised, encouraging men to the ideal of universal peace.  Many articles were published in the newspapers that the great, final result of this war would not be bad for Persia.  The various political parties in Persia, such as the party of Liberty, the Revolutionary party, the Democratic party, the Unionist party, in brief, all these and other parties brought ruin upon that country.  But, God willing, ere long these exiled ones will be assisted to render a most great service to Persia and the Persians, because we are taking hold of every effective means and are connected with important personages.


IX:17, 19 January 1919
page 200
"Unloose the tongue in teaching the Cause of God"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
As much as you are able, unloose the tongue in teaching the Cause of God and demonstrate ye extraordinary effort in the guidance of the souls.  The Cause of God will advance only through the effect of teaching and the friends will achieve victory through the holy fragrances.  I declare by the mystery of existence that were there a number of souls to arise, opening their tongues and delivering the Message with the utmost severance, sanctification, holiness and power of attraction the powers of the world would not withstand them and the hosts of the earth would not prevent them from accomplishing their tasks.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 25 June 1914.


IX:19, 2 March 1919
page 222
"Blessed is the one who has believed on Thee"
Extracts from The Visiting Tablet which all pilgrims chant in the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh
The praise that appeared from Thy supreme soul and the glory (Bahá) that dawned from Thy most glorious (Abhá) Beauty be upon Thee, O Thou Manifestation of the Almighty, King of Immortality and Lord of whomsoever is in earth and heaven.
I testify that, by Thee was revealed the Sovereignty of God and His dominion and the greatness of God and His might, and by Thee arose the suns of eternity in the heaven of destiny and dawned the invisible Beauty from the horizon of Bahá.  And I testify that by a movement of Thy pen appeared the order of Káf and Nún1 (be and it is) the hidden mystery of God was manifested, creation commenced and the manifestations (prophets) were sent.
And I testify that by Thy Beauty appeared the Beauty which is worshipped and by Thy face was revealed the Face of the Desired One, and by a word of Thine a separation (differentiation) affected the creation; the sincere advanced to the lofty summit and the polytheists descended to the lowest state.
And I testify that whosoever knows Thee verily knows God, and whosoever attains Thy meeting has verily attained the meeting of God.
Therefore, blessed is the one who has believed on Thee, attained Thy good pleasure, walked about Thine abode and presented himself before Thy throne.


IX:19, 2 March 1919
page 222
Intercession, a special teaching of this Religion
The following was sent by Miss Ethel Rosenberg from her notes while in 'Akká 1904.  (Extract from the Teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.)
The Master said that by the mercy of God, not through His justice, the condition of those who have died in sin and unbelief can be changed.  We are commanded to pray that their condition may be changed.  As we have the power to pray for those souls here, so we shall have the same power in the after-life in the Kingdom.  The power of this prayer of intercession is a special teaching of this religion.  To pray for the dead was not given as a special religious command (of the divine Teachers) until this day of the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh).  The grace of effective intercession is one of the perfections belonging to perfect and advanced souls, as well as to the Manifestations of God.  Jesus Christ had the power of interceding for the forgiveness of his enemies when on earth, and he certainly has this power now!
'Abdu'l-Bahá never mentions the name of a dead person without saying, "May God forgive him!" or words to that effect.  He says, "Followers of the prophets have also this power of praying for the forgiveness of souls; therefore we may not think that any soul is condemned to a stationary condition of suffering or loss, arising from their absolute ignorance of God.  The power of effective, intercession for them always exists.  All the people in the other world, are they not the creatures of God?  Therefore, they can progress in the other world.  As they can receive light from supplication here, there they can also receive light from supplication.  The rich in the other world can help the
page 223
poor, as the rich can help the poor here.  In every world all are the creatures of God.  They are always dependent upon Him, not independent, nor can they ever be so.  While they are needful of God, the more they supplicate, the richer they become.  What is their merchandise?  What is their wealth?  In the other world what is the means of help and assistance?  It is intercession.  First, undeveloped souls must gain progress through the supplications of the spiritually rich; afterwards, they can progress through their own supplications."


IX:19, 2 March 1919
page 228
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
To the maid-servant of God, Sarah Gertrude Harris, New York City.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou my beloved daughter!
Your letter dated 13 November was received.  Its contents occasioned infinite grief, for it spoke of the ascension of that illumined youth.1  Indeed in the rose-garden of God that young man was like unto a shrub in its utmost freshness and promising good fruits.  Whoever has seen him or heard him has undoubtedly been shocked and grieved at the news of his passing away.
However, although that peerless shrub has sought separation from the woods of the nether world, yet, it has appeared fully adorned and resplendent in the rose-garden of the world on-high in the Abhá Paradise.  That divine bird has flown away from this mortal and earthly nest, has ascended to the Kingdom of God and has been engaged in singing the sweet melodies of praise and thanksgiving on the lordly branches in the rose-garden of the Merciful.  Happy is he and blessed in his abode!  He has reaped the result of life and has become a fruitful tree.  Grieve not therefore for his death and be not depressed.
With regard to his life insurance, act in accordance with his will.  I have perused his letter and have supplicated for him from the Threshold of Oneness an exalted station.
As to my presence in America for the laying of the corner-stone of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, this depends upon the unity and harmony among all the friends of God.  For their union is like unto a lodestone which draws me to their shores.
I have been gladdened by the news you have conveyed of the gathering of the friends and their union and affiliation.
Convey the utmost kindness on my behalf to Bahá'íyyih.  I hope that Mr Harris will fully recover, and engage as it ought to be in the service of the Lord.
The relatives who are here all convey to you their longing greeting.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 28 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


IX:19, 2 March 1919
page 228
Supplication for Lua Getsinger
[Copy sent by Ahmad Sohráb, 18 December 1918.]
Home of Bahá'u'lláh, 'Akká, Syria, 8 February 1917.
My dear brothers and sisters in the Cause:
It was one afternoon of the month of September, 1916, when the Master was sojourning along the shore of the Sea of Galilee, that we received the sad news of the death of the beloved Lua.  No one could believe it.  When the Centre of the Covenant heard about it he was deeply affected and felt more than any one of us her great loss.  Since that day I have heard him more than a hundred times exclaiming with a moving voice:  "What a loss!  What a loss!  What a loss!"  In this short letter I cannot reproduce all the words he uttered about her, but I can say that all the believers mourned for her and regretted her departure most sincerely.  We know full well that her purified spirit freed from the fetters of water and clay soared to the Kingdom of Glory and received the reward of her services to the Cause of God!  In a Tablet revealed years ago, the Master gave her to me as a mother, and from that time on I tried always to fulfil this heavenly
page 229
pledge of sonship.  She always directed my sentiments and deeds towards the heights of nobility and truthfulness. ...  She was a source of inspiration and consolation in all my affairs.  If I desired to do something, I consulted with her, and she never failed in giving me good, elevating advice or when she travelled or I was away we corresponded together.  And now that she is living in the Supreme Concourse, I feel every day her supporting mother-love and her solicitude about my welfare.  From many standpoints she was a unique teacher.
Firstly, she was one of the earliest believers in, America who, enkindled with the fire of God's love, travelled extensively and called the people to the Kingdom.
Secondly, she was amongst the very first pilgrims who came to 'Akká and received the blessings of the Master.  Her verbal account of that first glorious pilgrimage was enough to convince anyone of the validity of this dispensation.
Thirdly, she was strictly speaking a disciple of the Master, taught by him and educated by him and sent out by him as an ordained teacher.
Fourthly, she travelled throughout the continents of America, Europe, Asia and Africa to spread the Word of God and diffuse the fragrances of the flowers of truth.
Fifthly, in this Cause we have two kinds of teachers.  The first are those who teach new souls and spread the Cause in new environments, the second are those who work amongst the believers.  Lua belonged to the first order of teachers.
Sixthly, she taught many important souls, and her pupils, both men and women, in the United States and Canada, are numerous-pupils who are zealous and active, carrying along her work of spiritual illumination with intelligence and enthusiasm.
Seventhly, she was one of the very few souls who visited the Holy Land seven or eight times, lived in the blessed household for months at a time, and was considered as one of the members of the holy family, one of the daughters of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Eighthly, she was the one living believer who visited the Sháh of Persia years ago in Paris and interceded in behalf of the friends of his kingdom.
Ninthly, her faith in this Revelation was perfect, her heart was a treasure of the jewels of the Kingdom, her tongue was eloquent in the praise of the Lord, her consciousness mirrored forth the rays of the Sun of Reality and her aim and object was for no other than the teaching of the Cause and the glorification of truth.
On the evening of 21 December, when the believers were in the presence of the Beloved in Haifa, I begged him to reveal a Tablet of Visitation in her honour, as a celestial token of her services.  A translation of it is enclosed herewith.
Hoping that all may be inspired through her self-sacrificing example, I am,
Your sincere servant,
Ahmad Sohráb
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Supplication for the attracted maid-servant of God, Lua, who ascended to the Supreme Concourse,-Upon her be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O Lord!  O Lord!  Verily Thy maid-servant who was attracted with the fragrances of Thy Holiness, enkindled with the fire of Thy Love, the herald of Thy Name, the spreader of Thy Signs amongst Thy people,-ascended to Thee with humility and lowliness, trusting in Thee with all her heart, liberated
page 230
from all worldly ties and attractions, hoping for Thy Universal Favour and Mercy, desiring to enter Thy radiant Presence, supplicating Thy all-encircling Bounty, and begging for the descent of Thy glorious Bestowals!
O Lord!  Exalt her station, submerge her in the ocean of Thy Compassion and establish her in the midst of the Paradise of Immortality,-in the Universe of Lights, the Centre of the Beatific Mysteries.
O Lord!  She believed in Thee, chanted Thy verses, turned her face toward Thee with all her heart; her spirit was rejoiced through Thy glad-tidings and her soul was purified through the fire of Thy Love.  Then amidst the concourse of humanity, she arose in the promotion of Thy Word, suffered every thirsty one to drink from the goblet of Thy Guidance and healed every sick one with the antidote of Thy Knowledge.  In Thy Path she travelled to distant countries and remote regions and gave the good-news of Thy Kingdom throughout vast and spacious continents-until through the difficulties that she endured in Thy Path, her very flesh and bones were melted, diseases and sicknesses attacked her, her frail body failed her, her nerves and muscles weakened their functions and her heart became the target of conflicting ailments.  Then while hoping for the immortal life, the eternal existence, she abandoned this mortal, ephemeral world.
O Lord!  Grant her a palace in the neighbourhood of Thy Most Great Mercy; cause her to dwell in the gardens of Thy paradise, the Most High; illumine her countenance with the effulgence of Thy Good-pleasure, in the Kingdom of Thy Glory; usher her into the heaven of Thy Meeting and suffer her to live ever-lastingly in the assemblage of transfiguration, whose refulgent lights are shining upon the world of hearts and the realm of consciousness.
Verily, Thou are the Forgiving, verily Thou art the Pardoner and verily Thou art the Merciful of the Most Merciful!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


X:1, 21 March 1919
page 1
Tablet revealed by His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh
HE IS GOD!
The Supreme Pen says:  O friends of the Truth!  The purpose of bearing these continuous sufferings and uninterrupted calamities is, that the souls who are assured in God may, with utmost unity, associate with one another to such an extent that discord and difference between two individuals may vanish from them, except in special ordinances revealed in the divine Books.  The man with inner sight does not see imperfection in any condition.  Whatsoever happens is a proof of the greatness of his condition and of the purity of his entity.  For example, if a soul becomes humble, indeed this humbleness to the friends of God returns to God, for they look at his faith.  By God!  In
page 2
this case, if the opponents do not act similarly, or if arrogance is shown by them, the person with insight (and humbleness) is in his own sublime deed and has already received and will receive recompense.  The harm of the action of the opponents will return to them.  Likewise if a soul becomes arrogant this arrogance returns to God-We take refuge in God from that!
O people of comprehension!  I declare by the Greatest Name that it is a pity for you to consider incidental conditions.  Arise for the Cause of God and with one another affiliate in the utmost love and sincerity, for the sake of the Face of the Beloved.  Burn the veils of self with the fire of oneness and with bright and cheerful faces associate with one another.  All of you have seen with your own eyes the qualities of the Truth.  It was never approved that a single night should pass and any of the friends of God be away from this Slave.  The heart of the world is ablaze by the Word of God.  It is a pity that you do not become ablaze by this fire.  God willing, we are hopeful that this blessed night you may call "The night of unity".  Become united with one another and adorned with the embroidery of goodness and praiseworthy conduct.  Your efforts should be to guide a strayed, perishing soul to the laws of eternity and among the creatures conduct yourselves in such manner that the sign of Truth may become manifest in you; for you are the first of existence, the first worshipers, the first who bowed and the first to encircle the Holy Threshold.  By the one who caused me to utter that which He desired, your names in the Supreme Kingdom are more famous than they are to you.  Do not think this utterance is imagination.  I wish that you could behold what your Lord, the Merciful, sees of the sublimity of your condition, the greatness of your degrees and the supremacy of your stations.  We ask God that your desires may not prevent you from that which was ordained for you.  We are hopeful that in the utmost harmony, love and friendship you may deal with one another in such a manner that the banner of oneness may be raised.  Surpass ye one another in good affairs and in showing contentment.
His is the right to command!  He doeth whatsoever He wisheth and ruleth whomsoever He desireth, and verily He is the Powerful, the Dear, the Mighty!
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, 9 July 1918.


X:1, 21 March 1919
page 3
Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá recently revealed
Mr and Mrs Vail
To his honour Mr Albert Vail and the maid-servant of God, Emily Vail, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.-Upon them be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O ye who are firm in the Covenant!
Verily, your letter was the third of those received from America.  subsequent to the extinction of the fire of war.  I was indeed gladdened to peruse it for it was indicative of a pure purpose and a lofty ideal, to wit:  the service of the world of humanity.
The most advisable thing, therefore, is to gather every Sunday in order to discuss "Pure and Sanctified Living", "Universal Brotherhood", and the "Philosophy of Universal Religion".
As to the promulgation of Truth, verily it is divine and heavenly character, action in accordance with the divine and merciful instructions and the propagation among men of lordly behests and exhortations.
I pray God that He may therein confirm ye.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 17 December 1918.
page 7
Marion Jack
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Jack, Chicago, Ill.-Upon her be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art the well-wisher of mankind!
Thy letter was received and was perused most attentively; its contents were exceedingly pleasing.  Thy wish, as well as that of the friends of America, is that I may undertake a voyage to that land; but my heart is there and I am always thinking of them; and as they associate and affiliate in the utmost of love and union therein, my heart and spirit reside.  Entertain no doubts whatever for I am linked with you spiritually even though separate in body.  We are all under the shade of the unicoloured pavilion of the world of humanity, but heedlessness forms a veil and an obstacle.  When it is removed the veil will be rent asunder and we shall see one another gathered up together and present.
page 8
Thou hast written of thy wish to use the money of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár to aid some of the dear sisters to get well:  If you have gathered the sum from your own money, spend half of it for the sisters, and the other half, spend it for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár; and if the sum is from other people, refer to them (i.e., the contributors) and act according to their wish.
Convey on my behalf greetings and the utmost of respect to the maidservant of God, Mrs Eva Cooper, (of Fruitport, Michigan).
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 27 December 1918.
Amy Wilkinson
To the maid-servant of God, Amy K. Wilkinson, Boston, Mass.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art enkindled with the fire of the love of God!
Your letter dated 26 November 1918 was received.  Those souls that, in this day, enter into the divine Kingdom and attain everlasting life, although they materially dwell on earth, yet in reality they soar in the realm of heaven.  Their body may linger on earth but their spirit travels in the immensity of space.  For as thoughts widen and become illumined, they acquire the power of flight and transport man to the Kingdom of God.
I beg of God that Mr Randall and thyself may both become two lofty soaring birds; that ye may nestle and abide in the loftiest summits of the Kingdom; that ye may behold the glorious signs and may perfume the nostrils with the fragrances of the Abhá Paradise.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 9 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Ella Goodall Cooper
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Ella Goodall Cooper, California-Upon her be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O thou respected maid-servant of God!
Your letter, dated 22 October 1918 was received.  Although for four years communication between us has been interrupted, yet the spiritual messenger was heartily and continually engaged.  At all times I implored from the divine Kingdom, begging for the maid-servants of God and the friends of the Merciful divine assistance and confirmation.
At present, praise be to God, your detailed letter is at hand, and its news of the health and safety of the believers of God imparted a joy unlimited.  From the unity of the friends of that land we have felt greatly happy and glad.  I pray God that this union, firmness, steadfastness and spiritual consultation may become day by day more pronounced, and this rose-garden which has been planted in that continent may bestow perfume, through the scent of its flowers and blossoms, upon the nostrils of the people of the world.
page 9
How beautifully thou hast expressed the thought, namely:  "We hope that the love and unity of the friends may soon become the magnet of attraction which will draw thee again to our shores."  This is evident and sure-that if the light of love among the friends will be as resplendent as it ought to be and like unto a candle will illumine that gathering, it will surely exert the effect of a magnet.
Convey on my behalf the utmost longing and love to all the assemblies.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 12 December 1918.
Roy C. Wilhelm
To his honour, Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, New York.-Upon him be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter was received and its contents imparted the utmost of gladness.  Thou hast inquired about our health.  Notwithstanding the great agitation in the East, thanks to Divine grace and bounty, we have passed these years of war in joy and gladness under the care and protection of Divine Providence.  Now, praise be to God, the darkness of oppression has passed away and the light of justice has dawned and a just government has been ministering to this land.
O thou who are firm!  What glad-tiding better than the one which thou hast imparted, to wit:  that misunderstanding from among the friends has
page 10
been eliminated and harmony and concord established!  This good news has made everybody hopeful that soon the torch of the Oneness of the World of Humanity may be enkindled in New York.
As to my voyage to India, it is not yet decided.  In case it is settled we shall inform you.
Convey the utmost love and attachment of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's heart to the favoured and respected maid-servant of God, Mrs Parsons, Mr Randall, Mr Mills, Mr Ashton and Mr Hall.  I hope from the bounties of the Kingdom these souls may enlighten the world of humanity, may promulgate the oneness of the world of existence and like unto stars may shine upon men by the light of union and concord from the horizon of the world.
...
... Send to me the design of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár as produced by him.  I pray God that this year the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be started.
...
Concerning communication with the Holy Land, that is to say, Haifa, communicate directly for the hindrances and obstacles have been eliminated.
Convey to each and all the believers of God the utmost longing and greeting.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
P.S.:  The enclosed booklets1 have been perused.  Send for us one hundred copies of each for they are exceedingly praiseworthy.  Verily, you are engaged in serving the Cause and thus His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh is well pleased with you and I am also satisfied and content.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 12 December 1918.
Corinne True
To the maid-servant of God, Corinne True, Chicago, Ill.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou firm in the Covenant!
Your letter dated 23 November 1918 was received.  Its contents indicated that, praise be to God, you were engaged in the service of Mashriqu'l-Adhkár; that this Universal Edifice may be erected.  Indeed you spare no effort in this respect, and I entertain the hope that this endeavour may grow day by day.  Deeds are like unto trees, for to plant a shrub is no difficult matter, while the care necessary for its growth and yielding fruit is hard and difficult.  So far, effort was expended to lay the foundations of the Temple, but now its erection and completion is a difficult matter, and my hope is that the friends of God may be therein assisted.
The second question which is of vital importance is that the friends of God must strive with heart and soul and promulgate heavenly teachings and spread
page 11
far and wide the Light of the Kingdom; for the world of humanity has acquired, as a result of this great carnage, a great capacity for the propagation of universal peace.  Ears are longing to hearken to the call of the oneness of the world of humanity, to universal reconciliation, and to the abandonment of ignorant prejudices.
In fine, if all the friends of God engage in the promulgation of heavenly teachings, the establishment of universal peace shall be a foregone conclusion.
Praise be to God, whatever has been explicitly recorded in the divine Tablets has been fully realized, and all the warnings and appeals of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the temples and gatherings of America have come to pass.  At present we hope all will engage in the service of the Kingdom and will promulgate whatever is the will of God.
The teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh are today the spirit of life, the means of peace and reconciliation, the cause of amity and union, and the promoter of the oneness of mankind.  One should engage in such a service.
Thy eldest and respected daughter, having striven hard and cared for the wounded, is permitted to present herself whenever she has the opportunity.  Praise be to God, the condition of your youngest daughter has ameliorated. ...
As to Mr Fugeta; He is permitted to present himself, but he must first go to California to meet the maid-servants of God, Mrs Goodall and Mrs Cooper, and thence start for the Holy Land. ...
Convey longing greeting to all the friends of God.
Upon all be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 7 February 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
page 12
Dr Díyá Baghdádí
To his honour, Dr Díyá Baghdádí, Chicago-Upon his be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou favoured servant at the Threshold of the Almighty!
The letter thou hast written on 25 September 1918 has been received.  Praise be to God, thou hast remained safe and protected throughout these years of disturbance and commotion.  Thou wert guarded by the eye of Bounty and wert the recipient of infinite blessings.  Now that disturbance and commotion have abated, you must more than ever before endeavour in teaching and promulgating the divine teachings.  Today the promulgation of the foundation of the divine teachings, which has been explicitly recorded in the blessed Tablets, is the cause of the life of the world.  Emphasize and attach importance to this great cause.  Arise in teaching.  These are the days of seed-sowing.  One's time must be occupied continually in sowing so that the station of the divine gardener may be attained and great harvests be prepared.
As soon as the way of communication has been opened I have taken up correspondence with thee.
...
Embrace and show utmost affection in my behalf to thy little daughter.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
To his honour, Dr Díyá Baghdádí, Chicago.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
Thy letter dated 21 December 1918 reached us. ....
Concerning the House of Spirituality:  I pray God to assist them in all conditions and confirm them for the elevation of the Word of God and the promulgation of the divine teachings, so that they become the cause of the establishment of the oneness of humanity and the diffusion of the Merciful fragrances, in order that the prejudice among the religions, the sects and the races may not remain and all together take hold of the rope of God, the mis-
page 13
understandings among all the parties may vanish and the human world may become the mirror of the Kingdom of God on which the lights of consciousness shine.  Convey thou my greeting and longings to the House of Spirituality ...
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 10 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Jessie Revell
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Jessie Revell, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.-Upon her be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast wished and asked for help and assistance.  As thy purpose is right and thy aim service to the world of humanity; the propagation of the light of truth and the abandonment of the superstitions of the nether world, undoubtedly divine confirmations shall encompass thee and thou shalt be assisted and confirmed.
Convey my love and my kindness to thy respected mother and likewise to thy brothers and sisters.  Present my considerable respects to Mrs Isabella D. Brittingham and similarly to Mr Paine, Mr and Mrs Walter Bowen and their children.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 30 December 1918.


X:1, 21 March 1919
page 16
Three kinds of martyrdom
Martyrdom has many explanations, of which the first is to stand bravely and meet death unflinchingly in the path of God, as those wonderful souls have recently done in Persia without wavering for an instant in constancy, nor, under the hands of torture, denying for a single moment their faith.
The second is to, little by little, detach one's heart entirely from this world, laying aside, deliberately and voluntarily, all vanities, worldly seductions, and devoting one's self to the Vineyard of God in whatsoever capacity he is fitted to serve, letting every action, word and deed become a telling monument, a fitting praise and an everlasting glory for His Holy Name!
The third consists in doing the hardest and most difficult things with such willingness and self-sacrifice that all behold it as your pleasure.  To seek and accept poverty with the same smile as you seek and receive fortune.  To make the sad and sorrowful your associates, instead of frequenting the society of the careless and gay.  To dress in such a simple, plain manner that your appearance becomes a comfort to the poor and an example to the rich.  "To yield to the decree of God and to be rejoiced at the most violent calamities, even when the suffering is beyond endurance."  And he who can fulfil these last conditions becomes a martyr indeed.  Then your good deeds will be your garments, your words of praise to God will be your jewels, and your purity of spirit will be your riches.
A portion of a letter from one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's daughters, Munavvar Khánum, to a Paris believer.


X:2, 9 April 1919
page 17
Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá recently revealed
page 19
Charles Mason Remey
To his honour, Mr Charles Mason Remey, Washington, D.C.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Since the extinction of the fire of war four successive letters have been received from you.  The utmost happiness they brought for they carried with them the glad-tidings of the health and welfare of the friends of God.
Praise be unto God, that throughout this violent storm the Ark of the Covenant hath attained unto the shore of Salvation.  The danger was imminent and the occasion for fear and apprehension prepared.  The friends in all regions remained safe and preserved under the shade of divine protection, particularly in the Holy Land where the danger and calamities were infinite and limitless.  Every day brought a new trial and every hour carried with it a special difficulty.  In brief, had not divine protection been extended, existence for a single day would have been absolutely impossible.  This, verily, is one of the miracles of God that I and the friends in the Holy Land should remain safe and protected while being held in the strong grip of a group of sanguinary1 persons.
Prior to the war, numerous letters were dispatched to America wherein it was manifestly recorded that a severe commotion was ahead and a great agitation lay in the near future; that the people of the world would be involved in crucial danger and affliction, and trying tests would come to pass; that the pillars of comfort would quake from the intensity of commotion and that blessed souls would shine resplendently like unto the stars of the Supreme Horizon.
Praise be to God, the showers of the blessings of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) are abundantly pouring and the grace and bounty of the loving Lord are complete.  At present these gloomy clouds are in the process of dissipation from the horizon of the world.  The friends of God must, in accordance with the prescribed directions which have formerly been sent, forget everything, hasten to different lands and regions and promulgate the divine teachings.  For this blood-thirsty war has made the world of mankind tired of life, all ears eager to hearken to the call of universal peace, to the declaration of the oneness of the world of humanity, to full understanding, to the annihilation of estrangement and the hoisting of the standard of affection.  The majority of the people are ready to listen to the divine teachings.  Opportunity must not be let slip away for at another occasion such a capacity will not be found and endeavour and effort shall be in vain.  Today is the day of teaching, for all men are athirst and divine teachings are as the refreshing water.  Later on, the thirst shall not remain so severe.  Hence one should seize the opportunity so that possibly all races and creeds shall unite and this enmity and rancour may vanish from among men.
page 27
Convey on my behalf to the two respected personages, Mr Richard Mayer and Mrs Ledyard the utmost love and kindness.  I beg and supplicate to the divine Kingdom and beseech for these two purified souls limitless favour that they may sprout in the Paradise of Abhá on the banks of the Water of Life and grow and flourish by the outpouring of the Cloud of Bounty.
The designs of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár have been perused.  All are good.  That which is chosen by the Committee of the Temple is best.  The report which thou hadst written of thy travel with Mr Latimer to the various parts of the world, to Honolulu, Hawaii, and other regions has been noted.  Praise be to God, thou has been assisted in such a great service.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 8 January 1919.
page 28
Genevieve Coy
To the maid-servant of God, Genevieve L. Coy, Columbus, Ohio.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who hast sought guidance from the Kingdom of God!
Thy letter, dated 24 October 1918 was received.  The purport was conducive to happiness.  Praise be unto God, thou hast been freed from the fetter of agnosticism (I know nothing) which is indicative of utter ignorance, and hast hastened to the Realm of "Verily, I know everything!"  For heavenly souls acquire the power of perception and ultimately reach unto a station at which they comprehended the realities of things.  Formerly they were agnostics; later on they became true and firm believers.  My hope is that thou mayest attain such a station.
In that city, although the fire of the love of God has not yet been set ablaze, soon it shall become aflame; blessed souls shall enter the divine Kingdom, shall arise with righteous aim and chaste deeds in the service of the world of humanity, shall raise the call of the Kingdom and shall ignite a candle in every heart.
I pray in behalf of the inhabitants of that city and beg for them the light of supreme guidance, that spirits may be illumined and hearts may be gladdened by the glad-tidings of God.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 9 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Anna Van Blarcom
To the maid-servant of God, Anna Van Blarcom, Montclair, New Jersey.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art encompassed with the blessings of God!
Thy letter was received.  Praise be to God, it contained good news, namely that a group of coloured men have become illumined and have acquired a new zeal and ardour.  When I was in America, I exerted a great deal of effort in order to promote a great harmony and union among the white and the coloured, for men are like unto doves which associate in perfect concord and amity whether white, black, yellow or red in colour.  My hope is that this may happen among men.  Consider ye, that colour has been obliterated among birds, among whom distinction in colour does not prevent intimate association.  The same applies to animals which give no importance to colour, but rather take into consideration the species.
How then can man, who is the highest type in the world of creation, attach importance to unimportant matters and make difference in colour the cause of alienation and enmity?
Endeavour ye, therefore, to bring about absolute affiliation between the white and the coloured.  This variety in colour is indeed an ornament.  If in a rose-garden all the flowers are unicoloured, what beauty may be found therein?
page 29
Whereas if thou beholdest a garden wherein multi-coloured flowers bloom, infinite grace and beauty will appear therefrom.
Likewise if the world of mankind were of one colour what preference would it have?  Whereas multiplicity of colour is an emblem of the Power of the Merciful.
Convey to Mrs Beede the utmost kindness on my behalf and to Mr Randall the glad-tiding of the Kingdom and my utmost love to the Edsalls and Reids.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine, 9 January 1919.
Emma Carmichael
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Emma Carmichael, Brantford, Ontario, Canada.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
Your letter dated 14 November 1918 was received.  From its contents it became known that you are in Canada, and are turning your face, with a clean and pure purpose to the Kingdom of God.
Among the inhabitants of Canada, the attracted maid-servant of God, Mrs Maxwell, is in reality in the utmost attraction and enkindlement.  Convey my greeting to her.  I hope that, having joined hands together, you may strive for the promulgation of divine teachings and thus be the cause of the enlightenment of that region.  Those souls of the Kingdom who are attracted in these days are like unto a gardener, are ceaselessly sowing seeds, are bestowing growth through the outpourings of the cloud of guidance and are heaping up piles of crops and harvest.  My prayer to God is that you may also act similarly.
Concerning what you had written about your husband, be thou not grieved for, praise be to God, he has attained unto everlasting life and has reaped the fruit of his existence on earth, and this is faith and the complete turning of the face toward the Kingdom of God.  This is verily everlasting health, this is eternal comfort, this is heavenly exaltation and this is merciful bounty.
Convey on my behalf greeting and kindness to the maid-servants of God, Mrs Mabel Davis Reley and Mrs Emma Reasner.  Although their two supplications have not materially arrived, yet the heart from their contents is indeed gladdened.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 9 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Martha Root
To the maid-servant of God, Martha L. Root, Cambridge Springs, Pennsylvania.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou enkindled with the fire of the love of God!
Your detailed letter dated 7 November 1918 was in these days received.  The contents produced great joy, for they indicated a benevolent purpose, an untiring effort and an extended tour around the different parts of the globe.
page 30
Today the promulgation of the ideal principles of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, which are manifestly recorded in the Books, is the spirit of this age and the cause of the realization of assistance and confirmation.  Assuredly whenever thou holdest fast to it, in whatever enterprise thou mayest engage, thou shalt find the doors of might and power flung open to thy face.  My hope from the blessings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh is that thou mayest become self-sacrificing in His path, that thou mayest forget rest and composure and like unto a swift-flying bird, thou mayest cover long distances and in whatever land thou tarriest thou mayest reproduce the melody of the Kingdom and engage in songs and music in the best of tunes.
At present the whole world is prepared for the call of the Kingdom.  The past war has given rise to a wonderful capacity among men, for the underlying foundation of the teachings of God rests upon the comfort and the well-being of the denizens of the world and upon the establishment of Universal Peace.
As ears are awaiting the summons for Universal Peace, it is therefore advisable for thee to travel, in case comfortable journey is possible, to the different parts of the globe and roar like unto a lion in the Kingdom of God.  Wide-reaching consequences thou shalt witness and extraordinary confirmations shall be exhibited unto thee.  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has said:  "Verily, We gaze upon ye from My Abhá Horizon and shall come to the assistance of him who has risen to the service of My Cause with the phalanxes of the Supreme Concourse and with a legion of chosen and favoured angels."  Thus the diffusion of divine fragrances is above all the most important matter.
I very much desire that thou shouldst visit the Holy Land and thus to meet thee, but teaching stands above everything else and if thou deemest it advisable, engage thou in the spreading of it throughout the regions of the world.
His honour Mr Harry Randall is indeed the herald of the Kingdom of God, serves His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and the friends of God beyond his own endurance and is the cause of the extension of the sphere of teaching.
His honour Mr Roy Wilhelm is in reality a true servant.  He has no thought save service to the Kingdom of Abhá and is therein engaged day and night.
Mr Richard Mayer is self-sacrificing in service to the world of humanity and is the cause of the diffusion of Divine fragrances.  His efforts are accepted at the Kingdom of Abhá.
As to Green Acre, it is indeed an important spot.  Far-reaching consequences shall result from the gathering at that spot.  May the spirit of (her honour) Miss Farmer rejoice and rest in peace and may her reality be glorified in the Kingdom of Abhá!  I always beg assistance and confirmations for the friends in Green Acre.
His honour Áqá 'Abbás 'Alí is indeed the 'Abbás of Bahá, i.e.  the lion of Bahá'u'lláh, for he roars and proclaims the call of "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!" on mountains and in jungles.
Concerning the Esperanto language, numerous letters have been written by the friends and have been spread over all the world.  My hope is that the Esperantists may become attracted by these epistles, may consider the magnitude of confirmation bestowed upon some of the important Tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and propagate them all around.  I trust they may turn their faces towards the Abhá Kingdom and may solicit assistance and confirmation in this noble undertaking.
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!  I presently implore and entreat at the Kingdom of God and beg for thy late mother unbounded forgiveness that
page 31
her chaste and pure essence may become sanctified from the pollutions of sins and may turn out bright and resplendent by the glorious Light in the limitless Kingdom.
Convey, on my behalf, the wonderful Abhá greetings to all the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 10 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Mabel Nickerson
To the maid-servant of God, Mabel A. Nickerson, Chicago, Illinois.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O maid-servant of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh!
Thy letter dated 25 September 1918 was received.  Thou hadst solicited confirmation.  Know thou verily that the magnet of confirmation is the promulgation of divine teachings.  Whosoever arises for the diffusion of the fragrances of God, the confirmation of the Kingdom will assuredly surround him to such an extent that he will himself remain confounded.
However, this is conditioned upon the conformity of words with deeds.  The people of Bahá must strive to diffuse the fragrances through deeds more than through words, for a single deed, motivated by the Essence of Sanctity, so promulgates (The Word) that its sweet-scented fragrances are transmitted to all the regions of the world.  My hope is that thou mayest be confirmed and assisted.
Thou hast asked for permission to attain the court of presence.  Whenever travel in comfort and ease is made possible, then thou art granted permission.
Convey to all the friends and maid-servants of God respectful greetings.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated Haifa, Palestine, 10 January 1919.
page 32
Belle Luxmore
To the maid-servant of God, Belle B. Luxmore.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou respected one!
Praise God and be grateful that thou hast become the recipient of divine bounty, has illumined thy sight and heart with the light of guidance, hast responded to the call of the Herald of the Kingdom and hast turned thy face to the Most Exalted Summit.
Appreciate thou the value of this supreme bounty and praise and thank the Lord day and night.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání.  10 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Henrietta Wagner
To the maid-servant of God, Henrietta Clark Wagner, Akron, Ohio.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter dated 24 October 1918 was received.  Praise be to God that, like unto the shower of bounty, thou hast caused every soil to be fertile and every plantation luxuriant.
Thou wert only complaining of Cleveland.  The reason why this inactivity prevails is because some heedless and thoughtless ones are corresponding with some of the people of that city.  But this depression and inactivity is like unto a mist which the Sun of Truth shall eventually dissipate through the heat of its rays.  Thus the obscurity of error shall give way to the morn of guidance.
Praise be to God, thou art engaged in service and art occupied in promulgating the Divine Teachings.
Appreciate thou the merit of such confirmed deed and thank thy Lord for it day and night.  The gratitude for this favour consists in thy adoption of divine morals, thy teaching the Cause of God and thy holding fast to His Covenant.
I beg for thee the Bounty, the Favour and the Blessings of God.
Forward the enclosed letters.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 10 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


X:2, 9 April 1919
page 24
Recent Tablet to an eminent Bahá'í in Persia
Translation of the blessed Tablet revealed by the Centre of the Covenant,
'Abdu'l-Bahá, and sent to the Star of the West by him for publication.
To his honour Áqá Mírzá Muhammad Bakr Khán, Shíráz, Persia.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant and steadfast in the Testament!
Your letter has been received in the best of time.  For some years not a melody has reached the ear of the longing ones from the district of Shíráz.  This letter is a faithful messenger that has arrived in this Blessed Spot from
page 25
that fragrant and pure country.  It is the message of that kind friend and the cause of joy and fragrance.
Thanks be unto God!  The friends in Shíráz, notwithstanding the cessation of news, were confirmed in firmness in the Covenant, through the favours of the Orb of the horizons.  I am hopeful that the melody of the Kingdom will so arise as to make that section envied by all regions.  It was written in the past, my hope is that the queen of songs from Shíráz may reach the ears of the Supreme Concourse.  The aim was that the friends of God may be so ablaze with the fire of divine love that the fra-
page 26
grances of God may be diffused to other parts.  That was the purpose of this Servant.
All the governments and the nations of the world have fallen in painful torture from the mischief of this universal war; the edifice of mankind quaked and the world of humanity fell into a great crisis.  All the sects have become targets for the arrows of calamities; but through the infinite bestowals of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) this oppressed party (the Bahá'ís) in all countries remained safe and protected.  This is from the blessings of the divine teachings.  All the nations and governments are assured that the party of God has no other purpose and desire save peace, reconciliation, the oneness of the world of humanity, harmony and kindness.  Even all the enemies give testimony to this.  For this world-consuming war has become the cause of the fulfilment of that which had been explicitly recorded in the divine Tablets and like unto the sun in the setting horizon, has become manifest and evident.  There remains no room of denial for any soul.  The evidence is complete.  Some of the enemies who composed books merely for corruption and to ignite the fire of hate, have recorded in their own books these divine behests which had emanated from the Supreme Pen and were printed and distributed more than thirty years ago.  They have even interpreted and explained some of the words that were slightly obscure so as to agitate the authorities of the enemy to strike and uproot the Blessed Tree!  Even the well-known Mírzá Mihdí Khán, wrote in the book of his delusion2 these divine records.  For example, he put in parenthesis the word "Constantinople" for "O thou point that art situated between the two seas" in order to disturb the celebrated personage3 and to make him understand that "verily, upon thee hath been established the throne of oppression" meant himself-the Sultán.  These enemies were indeed the heralds.  Now that these divine behests have, after fifty years, become fulfilled, there remains no room for denial for any soul, because as above written, these were recorded and printed in the writings of the enemies.  Every one who denies may refer to them.
Undoubtedly, you have perused the European papers.  This Servant in all gatherings, assemblies, synagogues and churches, declared at the top of his voice:  "O ye who are present!  O ye who are hearing!  The continent of Europe is like unto hell!  Below the surface the earth is filled with combustible materials.  It is an arsenal and a storehouse for ammunition and it depends only upon a spark to have its flames suddenly reach the zenith of heaven!  The fire of war will envelop the horizon and assuredly this shall come to pass!  O ye people, strive and make great efforts, perchance this world-consuming fire may become suppressed and extinguished.  Otherwise, countries shall be overturned, the world from the East to the West will become devastated, the human edifice shall be upset and in the world of His creation the structure of rest and happiness shall fall!"
These explicit talks were spread in the papers of the year 1912.  Now, according to the divine texts the susceptibilities of Universal Peace are emanating from the hearts.  The wise among the people who considered this great Cause as an impossibility and thought of it as superstitions, have now arisen in its promotion.  The divine texts are being used by the mouths of the well-wishers in different expressions.
Unquestionably, you have heard of the splendid addresses delivered by His Highness the President (Woodrow Wil-
page 27
son) in great gatherings and you have read them.  His Highness the President, explained his fourteen points in these great meetings, that they are the cause of progress and prosperity of the world of humanity.  Twelve of these fourteen points were recorded in the divine Tablets fifty years ago.  They were printed and most of them were translated and distributed.  Consider how the law of God is being spread by ideal forces.
The ascension of some of the friends to the infinite realm was the cause of sorrow to these wandering ones.  Yet for those blessed souls, their departure was the cause of joy and happiness.  The prisoner became free and the victim of deprivation hastened to the meeting-place of manifestation in the invisible world.
In regard to the book of the illiterate Javád4 there is no significance to it whatsoever, because every just one who reads such writings will instantly know the truth and will understand that these statements emanate from the world of doubts.  This book is not from the composition of the illiterate Javád, it was published in his name according to instructions from the centre of violation.  Likewise, other books that have been distributed are composed by the centre of violation but known in the name of different persons.  Let us leave aside this hearsay; become rejoiced in the fragrances of God and act according to the blessed commands.  In the Epistle of the Kings, (Bahá'u'lláh) quoted the following verse:  "My heart is depressed by men of weak elements!  My hands desire to reach the Lion of God5 and Rustam".6
Thanks be unto God!  Their honours Kháns7 are safe and guarded under the shadow of divine protection and engaged in completing their studies.  When the way becomes open and travelling facilitated, they will return to those regions with utmost longings.
Convey on my behalf, the greeting of the yearning one unto all the friends and unto each individually.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá.
Revealed 23 March 1919.  Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, April, 1919.


X:3, 28 April 1919
page 33
The Bahá'í Movement-is it the coming universal religion?
From the Helena Daily Independent, Sunday, 2 February 1919.
Jean Masson
[Not all quotations on page 33 could be located in the specified references.-M.W.T.]
The Holy Land had just been released from the grip of the Turk.  Communication was made possible between Palestine and the West after many months of interrupted intercourse.  And then through the British embassy came the message over the cable to America:
"I have much pleasure in informing you that I have received a telegram from my government stating that His Eminence 'Abdu'l-Bahá 'Abbás is in Haifa and that he is in good health and is well cared for."
Press notices in early October were sent out over the country, through the British Bureau of Information, that British troops came upon 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Haifa.
Who is 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that he should be the subject of telegraphic and press information immediately upon the complete defeat of the Turks and the establishment of communication?
At Leland Stanford university, in October 1912,8 this same 'Abdu'l-Bahá predicted the great war:
"We are on the eve of the battle of Armageddon, referred to in the 16th chapter of Revelation.  The time is two years hence, when only a spark will set aflame the whole of Europe.
"The social unrest in all countries, the growing religious scepticism, antecedent to the millennium, are already here.  Only a spark will set aflame the whole of Europe, as prophesied in the verses of Daniel and in the Book of John.9
"Before 1917 kingdoms will be annihilated, cataclysms will rock the earth.  Then all nations shall be as one faith and all men as brothers and these fruitless strifes and ruinous wars shall pass away, and the 'Most Great Peace' shall come, and man shall not glory in this, that he loves his country, but rather in that he loves his kind."
On Sunday, 12 May 1912,10 in Grace Methodist Episcopal church, New York city, this same 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave utterance to this momentous warning:
"Just now you can say Europe is a battlefield; like ammunition ready for a spark.  And one spark can set aflame the whole world.
"Before these complications and colossal events happen, take a step and prevent it."11
Who is this 'Abdu'l-Bahá, with the
page 34
vision of the seer, who so unerringly could prophesy world events?
Fifty years ago his father before him, the great Bahá'u'lláh, out of a prison in the Holy Land, sent letters to the kings of Europe, calling upon them to establish universal peace and righteousness among men.  He warned them of approaching calamity.  He predicted the downfall of Napoleon III, then at the zenith of his power; of the emperor of Austria; of the Sultán of Turkey.
To the emperor of Germany he wrote:
"O banks of the Rhine!  We have seen you covered with gore, inasmuch as the swords of retribution were drawn against you; and you shall have another turn.  And We hear the lamentations of Berlin, though she be today in conspicuous glory."12
Neither England, nor Russia, nor Persia, nor America was ignored by the prophetic and mandatory pen of Bahá'u'lláh.
To England he wrote through England's queen, Victoria:
"We see you increasing every year your expenditures, and laying the burden thereof on your subjects.  This, verily, is wholly and grossly unjust.  Fear the sighs and tears of this Wronged One, and lay not excessive burdens on your peoples.  Do not rob them to rear palaces for yourselves; nay rather choose for them that which ye choose for yourselves.  Thus We unfold to your eyes that which profiteth you, if ye but perceive.  Your people are your treasures.  Beware lest your rule violate the commandments of God, and ye deliver your wards to the hands of the robber.  By them ye rule, by their means ye subsist, by their aid ye conquer.  Yet, how disdainfully ye look upon them!  How strange, how very strange!
...
"O Rulers of the earth!  Be reconciled among yourselves, that ye may need no more armaments save in a measure to safeguard your territories and dominions."13
To America this authoritative pen wrote:
"Bind ye the broken with the hands of justice, and crush the oppressor who flourisheth with the rod of the commandments of your Lord, the Ordainer, the All-Wise."14
And the rulers-some of them responded to Bahá'u'lláh, and some of them have fallen, in unerring fulfilment, apparently, of the utterances of Bahá'u'lláh.
Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá?
You will hear their names around the world today, if your ear is sensitive to spiritual verities.  To know them you must first know the Bahá'í Movement, of which they and the great Báb are the central vivid figures.
And you cannot investigate the Bahá'í Movement without immediate association with the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, the great Bahá'í temple, that shall rival in beauty and perfection all other temples of historical import.
Recently there has been on exhibition at the National Museum in Washington a series of architectural designs of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, executed by Charles Mason Remey.
Other architects from the east and middle west, from Canada, have submitted designs embodying their conception of this great institution, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár-an institution unparalleled in religious and architectural history.
An institution that commands the attention of noted American architects; that has inspired one of them to make nine different studies of the same subject; an institution known in the orient as well as the occident; that shall take visible material form on Lake Michigan, in the very heart of the continent-the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár-what is its significance?  What does it mean today to a world searching, searching as never be-
page 35
fore for the reality of life; seeking after God, if haply we may find Him?
Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, translated from the Arabic into English, means the dawning point of praises (to God).  It is a creational idea that marks the beginning of a new historical era-an era of mutuality of service to God and man, of co-operation, the end of destructive competition, the beginning of the realization of the Christ teachings.
No appreciation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár can be had without knowledge first of the Bahá'í Movement, for its history is inextricably interwoven in the development of the great structure.  You will hear today of the Bahá'í Movement in every part of the world.  Representatives of all races and nations are its adherents.  If you are a Bahá'í, the name is open sesame around the world, even to the jungles of India.  You will hear of the Movement, not only in every civilized country of the world, but in the outlying posts of civilization, in unexpected islands of the sea, up in Alaska, down in uttermost Africa, so universal is its diffusion-a dynamic movement that penetrates, by virtue of its tremendous truth and vitalness, silently, ceaselessly, resistlessly, into the great heart of humanity.
The Bahá'í Movement had its origin in 1844, when, on the 23 May, a Persian youth, calling himself the Báb or Gate, arose among his countrymen and proclaimed the coming of the universal Teacher of Men, the Great One, whose appearance had been anticipated and prophesied by all the Scriptures of the world, who would lead humanity into all truth.  He called men to prepare themselves by self-purification for the recognition of the Great One, when He should appear among them.
It was a sceptical Muslim world that greeted the proclamation of the Báb, for his teachings meant assuredly the overthrow of ancient Islamic institutions.  And so, after a mission of six years, having lived a blameless, unsullied life, the Báb was martyred in the public square of Tabríz.  To the end he held tenaciously to his faith in his own personal mission as herald of the Mighty One, soon to stand forth, revealed to the world as the Manifestation of God.  His very name, indicatory of His station, the Báb announced-Bahá'u'lláh, Arabic for the Glory of God.
In 1852, Mírzá Husayn 'Alí of Núr, a man of ancient, distinguished Persian lineage, began an exile of forty years from his native land.  Persecution and imprisonment had been his portion at the hands of his government.  For, where the Báb ended his work, Mírzá Husayn 'Alí assumed the responsibility for the spiritual guidance of humanity.  Today, throughout the world, he is known as Bahá'u'lláh, "Him whom God should manifest", in fulfilment of the prophetic utterances of the Báb.  And the message he has given to the world, out of the deeps of his spiritual consciousness, is known as the Bahá'í Revelation.
The Holy Land was the scene of the last exile and imprisonment of Bahá'u'lláh.  At the instigation of the merciless Islamic government, with his family and a few followers, he had been ruthlessly sent forth, divested of all his estates, first to Baghdád, then to Constantinople and Adrianople, and, finally, in 1868, to the Turkish penal colony of 'Akká, nine miles north of Mt. Carmel, on the Mediterranean coast "the most desolate of the cities of the world".
The horrors of the Turkish prison, the tragic sufferings of the exiles are historical facts-horrors and sufferings that would have dissuaded ordinary men from pursuing their spiritual mission to the world.  Yet, in the midst of it all, as throughout the life of the brilliant protagonists of the Bahá'í Movement, those marvellous souls manifested only
page 45
an amazing patience and sweetness of spirit.  No resentment against their keepers!  No resentment against their government!
Two years of imprisonment in the barracks of 'Akká were followed by nine years of close confinement for Bahá'u'lláh, within the town in an abode, the threshold of which the great prisoner was not permitted to cross.  This was the external life of him whom today multitudes of people believe to have been the most extraordinary figure of any age.
Before his death, in 1892, there were a few years of somewhat greater freedom, within a radius of fifteen miles, which included Carmel and the village of Bahjí, his final resting-place.
No less extraordinary a figure than Bahá'u'lláh is his son, 'Abbás Effendi, known to the world as 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Arabic for the Servant of Bahá.  He was born on the very day of the Báb's proclamation.  And, at the age of eight, he began, with the exile of Bahá'u'lláh, his long, remarkable career of persecution, banishment, imprisonment, which ended only in 1908, when, by the overthrow of the Turkish government, he was granted his freedom.  Fifty-six years an exile from his native land!  Forty years a prisoner in the "most great prison" of 'Akká!
By the death of Bahá'u'lláh, 'Abdu'l-Bahá became the leader of the Bahá'í Movement.  To this station he had been accredited by his father, both verbally and by written document.  His peculiar function in the movement is interpreter of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh and exemplar for the world of the Bahá'í life.
In 1911-1912, you will remember, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, at the age of sixty-eight, journeyed to Europe and America, to spread the message of Bahá'u'lláh in the occident-that tremendous message of internationalism and religious unity, a basic principle of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  Statesmen, scholars, people of every degree of intellectual and spiritual attainment recognized his greatness and power.
Back in 1892, before the passing of Bahá'u'lláh, wrote Edward Granville Browne of Cambridge university, concerning 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "About the greatness of this man and his power no one who had seen him could entertain a doubt."15
And since that date 'Abdu'l-Bahá has been the subject of many interviews and many articles.  But no journalistic analysis has been able to penetrate the mystery of a life martyrdom for a spiritual ideal, a conscious spiritual mission to all the world.
When, in 1914, the European war burst forth in all its fury, friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, anxious for his safety, urged him to leave his home on Mt. Carmel and accept the greater security of America-a hospitality which he refused to accept, for the people of Palestine had need of him.  And there, on the mountain of God, in a war-ravaged land, he dwells, sending forth dynamic thoughts of love to a suffering humanity and a devastated world.
It is difficult to write dispassionately of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who sacrificed their lives, political and social freedom, all physical comfort, for the propagation of ideals, the establishment of principles, which are the common talk of men today.  Easily do we inherit them from these great souls.  Our statesmen today are interpreting government and social reconstruction in terms of the universal.  In the middle of the last century, Bahá'u'lláh gave the creative impulse to the new order of civilization that should include all humanity,
page 46
and the new order is upon us.  The old is swiftly passing.
Bahá'u'lláh from the prison of 'Akká, proclaimed his great revolutionary principles of world government and social readjustment to the crowned heads of Europe and to the common people.
These principles include the oneness of the religions of the world; the oneness of humanity; the universal brotherhood of man; universal peace; the harmony of religion and science:  the search for truth and the abolition of all prejudices, religious, national, racial, social; the equality of the sexes; equal educational advantages for both; equalization of the means of livelihood; social, industrial.  economic reorganization; the establishment of justice among men.  He urged the creation of a universal language.  He emphasized the necessity of a parliament of man, a universal tribunal of justice or arbitration to adjust international affairs.
He taught purity of life, selflessness, personal sacrifice and service to humanity.
There is inherent in the utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, as there is in the words 'Abdu'l-Bahá, a vitality, a power that compels attention, a creative quality that somehow makes them the effective, dominating influence in human hearts.  Tyrannical, mediaeval efforts of enemies to suppress the Cause, to destroy its leaders, have been futile.  And we have, today, millions of Bahá'ís who believe, with an indissuadable faith, that in the Bahá'í Movement only will the world find relief from its tragedy.  Has it not recreated them, transformed their individual lives?  Does it not make of every Bahá'í Assembly of the world an international group in itself-people of all races and nations?  The extension of such a group to include the world, how easy a matter, how logical a consummation.
Of this supreme unity of nations and races, this oneness of humanity and religion, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is symbolic.  It is the Bahá'í Movement in action, in service.
Commanded Bahá'u'lláh, in his book of laws for the world, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
"O people of the world!  Build ye houses of worship throughout the lands in the name of Him Who is the Lord of all religions.  Make them as perfect as is possible in the world of being, and adorn them with that which befitteth them, not with images and effigies.  Then, with radiance and joy, celebrate therein the praise of your Lord, the Most Compassionate.  Verily, by His remembrance the eye is cheered and the heart is filled with light."16
"Teach your children the verses revealed from the heaven of majesty and power, so that, in most melodious tones, they may recite the Tablets of the All-Merciful in the alcoves within the Mashriqu'l-Adhkárs.  Whoever hath been transported by the rapture born of adoration for My Name, the Most Compassionate, will recite the verses of God in such wise as to captivate the hearts of those yet wrapped in slumber."17
In response to this command, the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of the world was built in Ishqábád, Russian Turkistán.  The second will be established on the shores of Lake Michigan, just north of Chicago.  And every Mashriqu'l-Adhkár convention has for its impelling motive the construction of this great, impressive institution.
It is not a local, not a national, but a world proposition, this building of the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of the occident.  Bahá'ís of every race and nation have
page 47
contributed to the purchase of the site and the creation of the initial fund for the erection of the central building, the House of Worship, the Bahá'í Temple.
A significant place, in the history of the Bahá'í Movement, the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of America will hold.  Says 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
"This organization of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be a model for the coming centuries, and will hold the station of the mother."18
Several years ago, the Bahá'ís of Chicago set up a sign on the Temple grounds explanatory of the institution, whose walls would soon begin to rise upon the site.  Wayfarers read and wayfarers understood somewhat of the exalted purpose of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár:
"These grounds are the site of an edifice to be erected as an 'evident standard' in America of the oneness of humanity.
"Its doors will be open to all nations, races and religions.
"Its charities will be dispensed without regard to race or colour.  'Prejudice toward none-love for all.'
"Here, for the first time in history, religion and science will become harmonious, each the handmaid of the other, both showering their spiritual gifts on all humanity.
"Until the erection of this great edifice, all are welcome to this beautiful spot and, in its enjoyment, we ask you to keep it pure and sacred."
Service to humanity, hospitality slogans of the Bahá'í Movement.  Hospitality which, as to the Temple grounds, has been overwhelmingly accepted.
When, in the future, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár stands before the world, in all its completeness, it will comprise the Temple of Worship with numerous accessories for service-the externalization of the great principles, so emphatically, so insistently proclaimed by Bahá'u'lláh-a college for the higher scientific education, a school for orphan children and the poor, a hospital and medical dispensary, a home for cripples, a hospice, and other institutions, where art and music and science and truth shall find their highest, most brilliant, freest, most perfect expression.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be more than a university, more than an institution conceived by men, established by men.  From it shall emanate the most advanced scientific knowledge, which shall harmonize in its entirety with our developing religious consciousness, our heritage from the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Theirs is not empirical knowledge.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár shall be the standard for human achievement.  Here art and music and literature shall have their beginning and their glorious fruition.  And, under its powerful influence, life shall be forever changed, forever glorified.
"When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, with its accessories, is established in the world, aside from its religious, or spiritual, influence, it shall have a tremendous effect upon civilization."19
The building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is a colossal undertaking.  The central house of worship is concentrating the attention and the energies today of the followers of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  No decision as yet has been reached as to architectural design.  The ultimate may be a composite, achieved by the spiritual consecration of the architects of the orient and of the occident.  The Taj Mahal of India has been suggested as a model for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, because of its beauty and perfection of architecture.
Whatever architectural plan will be chosen for the Bahá'í Temple, it will emphasize, in its structure, essential features of the Bahá'í Faith.  Great beauty of design, the expression of nine, the perfect number, throughout the structure.  Nine entrances will distin-
page 48
guish the Bahá'í Temple from all other temples of the world, symbolic of the religious paths by which the Bahá'ís of the world have come into the realization that religion is one, that humanity is one, that God is One, Father of all.  Beautiful flower gardens shall adorn the grounds and fountains of pure water.  Beauty and majesty of outward expression.  The whole surmounted by a towering dome, it, too, a symbol of the great unity, as conceived by Bahá'u'lláh.
The Bahá'í Temple will carry its message far.  Far up and down the shore of Lake Michigan, far out upon the lake, its dome will be visible, the first landmark sighted by sailors coming into port, the last seen by them after departure.  And from afar, inland, will rise upon the vision this lofty monument to the greatness and glory of God, manifested through Bahá'u'lláh.
Into the Bahá'í Temple, this Holy of Holies, this Sanctuary of the living God, the Bahá'í will go for prayer, for worship, for spiritual refreshment.  This is the first requirement.  He comes forth renewed and strengthened, and stimulated to greater service for humanity, through the various accessories of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
"The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of Chicago is of the greatest importance.  This is a Bahá'í Temple, a supreme house of worship, a place of spiritual gathering, and the manifestation of divine mysteries."20
The relentless forces of freedom and justice and truth are at work in the world.  The spiritual currents of the new cycle submerge us.  Political and religious formulas of the past have failed of effectiveness.  Out of the old the virtue has gone.  We demand a new interpretation of life, of God, of service; a new religious statement, that shall demolish antiquated dogmas and superstition.  In the perpetual presence of God would we dwell, face to face with the great Reality.
Heretofore, in our quest for light and truth, we have stumbled and groped blindly.  Today the scales have fallen from our eyes.  We are clear of vision, dauntless of soul.  Destruction all about us.  Yet do we feel the infusion of new vivid life blood into the dead body of the world.
Destruction all about us-to make way for the brilliant era of reconstruction before us.
"A new era of divine consciousness is upon us.  The world of humanity is going through a process of transformation.  A new race is being developed.  The thoughts of human brotherhood are permeating the depths of hearts and a new spirit of universal consciousness is being profoundly felt by all men."21
The new statement of truth and life, the new interpretation, is made with tremendous, overwhelming, irrefutable power by Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
In the Bahá'í Movement lies the hope of the future.  "It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century."22  Ideals that are not mere abstractions, but the impelling force of dynamic action in human life.
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, the first institution of the new age, is the expression of Reality-reality of worship, reality of service, reality of brotherhood, reality of internationalism.
"For just as the external world is a place where the people of all races and colours, varying faiths, denominations and conditions come together-just as they are submerged in the same sea of divine favours-so, likewise, all may meet under the dome of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and adore the one God in the same spirit of truth; for the ages of darkness have passed away, and the century of light has come."23


X:3, 28 April 1919
page 38
Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá recently revealed
Agnes Parsons24
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Agnes Parsons, Washington, D.C.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved daughter!
Formerly a cable through the British Government was received from you but it was misrepresented and vague.  Although it could not be understood yet an answer was dispatched through the same Government.  Your letter dated 21 October 1918 has just been received.  Infinite gratitude have I tendered for the blessings, of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and have laid my head on His Sanctified Threshold and have offered my praise and thanks that, praise be to God, that beloved daughter has remained firm and steadfast throughout this violent storm and has wished and purposed nothing save service to His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh and the promulgation of Divine Teachings.  Rest thou assured that assistance and confirmations shall encompass thee.
Thou hast written concerning organization.  The divine teachings and the admonitions and exhortations of Bahá'u'lláh are manifestly evident.  These constitute the organization of the Kingdom and their enforcement is obligatory.  The least deviation from them is absolute error.
Thou hast written concerning my travel to America.  If thou couldst see how the waves of constant occupation are surging thou wouldst have considered that time for travel is absolutely lacking; in times of fixed residence partial
page 39
rest is even impossible.  God willing, I trust, through the bounty of Bahá'u'lláh, that as soon as means for the composure of mind and of heart are provided, I shall determine to journey and shall inform thee about it.
Convey on my behalf utmost kindness to thy beloved son and in perfect love kiss thou his two cheeks.  My prayer to God is that he may grow to be the cause of thy happiness and satisfaction.
The maid-servant of God, Edna Ballora, has been struck with a great affliction.  She is deeply grieved and sad.  Assuredly extend thou thy care upon her and be thou her stay and solace.
Convey to the two enlightened souls, Leona Barnitz and Mrs Finch, my love and kindness, and tell them:  "Praise ye God, that assistance has been extended and ye have turned your faces to the Supreme Horizon:  the bounty and guidance of which the mass of people are unaware, ye have found, and have adorned your head with a crown of supreme guidance, the glittering gems of which gleam and glisten throughout ages and generations.  Do not look at the present condition, contemplate the future.  The Apostles of Christ were fishermen, were destitute of fame and position and enjoyed no grade and rank.  They were, as it is intimated in the Gospel, insignificant persons, yea, they were low in the sight of the people.  At present consider ye, what change has taken place-how great they have become!  Nay rather, they have been the sovereigns of the Kingdom.  The bounties of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh to His servants shall in the future be made evident and manifest."
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 8 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Alice Ives Breed
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Alice Ives Breed, New York.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou respected maid-servant of God!
Thy letter dated 17 November 1918 was received.  Its contents was an exposition of truth.
Indeed, had the world of women wielded sufficient prestige, the conflagration of this war would not have set the world aflame.
If the mass of women in Europe and all those of America had been enfranchised throughout all the states, undoubtedly they would not agree to war.  At present, this war has made millions of children fatherless and millions of fathers and mothers destitute of sons; this war has snatched from pitiable sisters their brethren; this war has turned millions of women widows and destitute of husbands; this war has made cities desolate; this war has brought confusion and chaos in millions of villages; this war has made the very foundations of mankind quake and quiver.
If, in the future, women like unto men are given the franchise, assuredly they shall prevent the occurrence of war, whereas otherwise the matter will be difficult.  Man is sanguinary25 and even worse than devouring beasts.  Of what use is exhortation and to what amounts admonition?  A mighty power is necessary in order to make an effective opposition-otherwise it will be exceed-
page 40
ingly difficult.  I pray God that the world of women may be assisted and confirmed for their purpose is Universal Peace.
At present the friends of God must lay aside all thoughts and preoccupations and concentrate their energies upon the proclamation of the Cause of God and the divine teachings which lay the foundation of Universal Peace.
I supplicate and pray to the Divine Kingdom and beg for the friends of New York assistance and confirmation that they may, day by day, fortify the bonds of amity and union and may become the cause of the spreading of the Word of God.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 9 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
page 41
Isabella D. Brittingham
To the maid-servant of God, Isabella D. Brittingham, San Francisco, California.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O dear maid-servant of God!
Indeed, what thou hadst written is true.  Communication and connection between the sons and daughters of the Kingdom are not conditioned upon material links.  Spiritual means have ever existed and will continue to exist.  As, for instance, throughout all these years of commotion, when ways were barred and the doors of communication closed, notwithstanding this, hearts were attracted and gladdened by the fragrances of God.
This was because the bond of connection was firm and the link of association was strong.
The letters which thou hadst enclosed in thy letter have been received.  Praise be to God, thou hast acquired a long and spiritual lineage, and this is by far the most blessed of all lines.  For material lines of descent may either be greatly praiseworthy or mean in character, while spiritual lineage is the offspring of heart and of soul and is in every respect praiseworthy.
Ye had celebrated the Feast of the Covenant.  It was very proper.  Mr and Mrs Zim have served the Kingdom of God and on that day called a meeting in their home and celebrated the Feast.
I have been very pleased with the service of Mr Milton who has supported the government, for according to the explicit command of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, all Bahá'ís are ordered to serve, to obey and to be faithful to their government.  Convey my greetings to Mr Herbert.
The respected maid-servant of God Mrs Goodall and the attracted maidservant of God Mrs Cooper are indeed two candles illumined by the light of the love of God.
Thou shalt in future reap the fruits of thy tour to the southern states.
All the family and the Holy Leaves, convey to you their salutation and their longing.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 28 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Vitula Edith Whitton
To Mrs Vitula Edith Whitton, Geyserville, California.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou maid-servant of God!
The letter thou hadst written 23 November 1918 was received.  Its context indicated that-praise be to God!-thou art intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant and art aloof and away from all else save God; that thou hast a truthful heart and a firm step.
Although thou hast a small meeting, yet, as thou art firm and resolute, in future this gathering shall greatly expand and shall become elaborate, for the souls that are firm in the Covenant are, ever assisted and confirmed.  Rest
page 42
assured of the divine confirmation which strengthens all who are feeble and energizes all who are frail.
Convey on my behalf the utmost love and kindness to the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 3 February 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Elizabeth P. Hackley
To the maid-servant of God, Elizabeth P. Hackley, Urbana, Illinois.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Its contents indicated the turning of thy face to the Kingdom of God, thy freedom from the obscurity of the world of nature, thy illumination with the light of guidance, thy acquisition of spirituality and thy seeking to draw nearer to God.
My prayer to the Almighty God is that, day unto day, thou mayst increase in spirituality and attain to an ideal advancement.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 1 February 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
David Buchanan
To his honour, David Buchanan, Portland, Oregon.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art turning thy face to the Kingdom of God!
Thy letter dated 2 December 1918 was received.  Although the representatives of various governments are assembled in Paris in order to lay the foundations of Universal Peace and thus bestow rest and comfort upon the world of humanity, yet misunderstanding among some individuals is still predominant and self-interest still prevails.  In such an atmosphere, Universal Peace will not be practicable, nay rather, fresh difficulties will arise.  This is because interests are conflicting and aims are at variance.
We pray and beseech at the divine Kingdom and beg for the world of humanity rest and composure.  For Universal Peace will not be brought about through human power and shall not shine in full splendour unless this weighty and important matter will be realized through the Word of God and be made to shine forth through the influence of the Kingdom of God.
Eventually it shall be thoroughly established through the power of Bahá'u'lláh!
Verily, His Honour President Wilson is self-sacrificing in this path and is striving with heart and soul, with perfect good-will, in the world of humanity.  Similarly the equitable government of Great Britain is expending a great deal of effort.  Undoubtedly the general condition of the people and the state of small
page 43
oppressed nationalities will not remain as before.  Justice and Right shall be fortified but the establishment of Universal Peace will be realized fully through the power of the Word of God.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 10 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Claudia Stuart Coles
To the maid-servant of God, Claudia Stuart Coles, Washington, D.C.
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!
Thy letter dated 4 October 1918 was received.  It was not a letter but rather a bouquet of flowers diffusing the sweet scent of firmness and steadfastness and so it gave pleasure to the nostrils of the soul.
Praise be to God, the test proved to be the cause of the firmness and the steadfastness of the people of faith.
Throughout these years of disturbance and commotion when the world of humanity was physically and spiritually afflicted, the friends of God passed the day in rest, ease and comfort.  In the western countries only a few shared in the hardship and affliction of other souls while the mass of the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful, of whom Mrs Coles is one, have been living quietly and peacefully.  In the Orient every nation became distracted and every gathering dispersed save the friends of God who remained all protected and sheltered from every trouble and calamity in the Fort of Bahá'u'lláh's protection.  Verily, this is a divine miracle-that we helpless, friendless, unprotected, unsupported wanderers in these regions should be saved amidst the fire of oppression and tyranny.  This is God's miracle.26
In fine, praise be to God, yourself and the friends of God and the maidservants of the Merciful have, like unto an immovable rock, remained firm and resolute in the Cause of God.
Organize ye meetings and strive day and night that ye may be the cause of the diffusion of divine fragrances and the exaltation of the Word of God.
Concerning the book27 that thou hadst written about; it has been written on political affairs so that justice and equity may be promoted and the comfort of the world of mankind may be realized.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 28 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Jean Masson
To her honour, Miss Jean Masson-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou herald of the Kingdom!
The detailed letter thou hadst written was perused.  Its text was conducive to joy and it embodied refreshing news.  Praise thou the Lord, that thou hast become the means of the promulgation of heavenly teachings and hast
page 44
served the oneness of the world of humanity that all denominational, sectarian, racial, political, economic and even patriotic prejudices may be removed and the illumination of the love of God may enlighten the courtyard of hearts.
My hope is that day by day thou mayest be more confirmed and may serve to the best the world of humanity; that thou mayest adore mankind and ignite in every heart the lamp of guidance, may serve the world of morality so that human realities may be freed from the gloom of the world of nature which, in essence, is purely animal in character, and may be illumined with the light of the divine realm.
What service is there nobler than this and what gift more precious than this; what exaltation is higher than this and what sovereignty mightier than this?  I hope that therein thou mayest be confirmed.
As to Margaret Nelson, she has been emancipated from this gloomy dungeon of the world of dust and has hastened to the sanctified realm.  I pray on her behalf and beg for her the forgiveness and the pardon of the Lord of Creation, that she may secure rest and comfort in the realm of the Kingdom.
The article that thou hadst edited in the Helena Daily Independent28 was received and was perused.  Happy art thou that the Lord hath assisted thee in such a distinguished service.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 17 March 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Dorothy Nelson
To the maid-servant of God, Dorothy Nelson.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O dear maid-servant of God!
At the divine threshold address this prayer and beg forgiveness for thy sister.  That prayer is the following:
"O forgiving and kind God!  My beloved sister Margaret has hastened from this world to Thy realm and has abandoned the nether world to soar in the realm on high.  She was like unto a shelterless bird but has yearned for a rest and shelter in the celestial realm.  She was a thirsty fish and longed to be immersed in the sea of light.
"O God!  We are captives to innumerable sins, but need Thy pardon and Thy forgiveness.  We have lost the way but have hastened to Thee.  We suffer deprivation, but seek Thy rich treasury.  We are disabled and broken-winged, but are treading Thy path.  O God!  Forgive us and bestow upon us Thy pardon.
"Verily, Thou art the Refuge and Shelter of sinners and Thou art the Bestower, the Radiant One in the realm of heaven!"
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 17 March 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


X:4, 17 May 1919
page 73
Recent Tablet to the Bahá'ís of Egypt
To the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the country of Egypt -Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye who are sincere!  O ye who are attracted!  O ye who are of the new creation!
God, the Praised and the Exalted, hath said:  "Are these the same as the old creatures?  Nay rather, they are clothed in garments of a new creation!"  Then know ye that in the estimation of God, the example of the creatures is like unto a pure, blessed tree of a wonderful trunk and strong seeds.  He causes it to grow gracefully, then its roots become firm, its twigs spring forth, its leaves become verdant, its flowers bloom and its fruits appear.  Then its shade expands over all the regions, until it reaches its ultimate evolution and growth, attains to its development and height, its significances become perfect and its branches extend over the East and the West of the earth.  Then its creation is completed, its evolution is accomplished, its hopes become evident, it obtains its desire, it attains to its utmost perfection and its beauty becomes manifest.  Then its withering begins, its leaves turn yellow, its flowers become scattered, its fruits fall down and its earthly elements return to the layers of its soil.  No fruits remain upon it, no leaves, no attractiveness, no beauty, no sweetness and no freshness, until it becomes like unto an old hollow palm tree.  Then a new tree grows from its seeds, green, verdant and freshened by the divine outpouring, the merciful breeze, the heat from the Sun of Reality, the heavy rain from the clouds of the abundant mercy and the blowing wind from the wafting place of Providence.  "Whatever verse we abolish or forget we replace by a better one."  This is the example of the new creation, the miraculous cycle and the second resurrection, which is in conformity with the first creation.
Then thank ye God, the Praised and the Exalted, for the light of guidance, this complete bounty and this great bestowal.  "He chooseth for His mercy whomsoever He wisheth."  Then it is incumbent upon ye to cry out with most wonderful melodies:
Praise be to the One who created this marvellous dispensation!
Praise be to the One who made this new creation wonderful!
Praise be to the One who ordained this great outpouring!
Praise be to the One who shone forth with this evident light!
Praise be to the One who renewed this wonderful springtime!
page 74
Praise be to the One who perfumed the nostrils of the people of oneness with the merciful fragrance which is diffused in all the countries!  "And thou didst see that the land which was barren and lifeless when we caused the water to descend upon it, moved and grew and brought forth a beautiful pair of all things."
Praise be to the One through the outpouring of Whose clouds these countries became verdant!
Praise be to the One through the heavy rain of Whose compassion these rose gardens became beautified!
Praise be to the one through the current of Whose stream, these reservoirs became overflowing!
Praise be to the One who has chosen the sincere ones to spread His teachings in the countries!
Praise be to the One who selected for His mercy pure souls; through the fragrance of whose love and perfumed breaths the hearts of the pious throb!
Praise be to the One who made the stars of guidance to smite the wicked!
Praise be to the One who guided the chosen community to the upright way and straight path!
page 75
Praise be to the One who made them the signs of glad tidings among the people!
Praise be to the One who confirmed them by the banners of the great signs!
Praise be to the One who reinforced them by the mighty forces!
Praise be to the One who assisted them with the hosts from the Supreme Concourse!
Praise be to the One who built for them lofty palaces commanding the zeniths of heaven from which the lights sparkle throughout the centuries and the ages!
Then, O ye who are attracted by the fragrances of God, thank ye God for this complete bounty, infinite mercy, encircling outpouring and perfect attainment!  I pray God to strengthen your loins, give power to your backs, clarify your secrets and purify your consciences in all times and moments.
Upon ye be greetings and praise!
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, May, 1919, Chicago, Illinois.  [Sent 17 March 1919 by Shoghi Effendi.]


X:4, 17 May 1919
page 76
Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá recently revealed
Santa Barbara Assembly
To the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, Santa Barbara, California.-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye sons and daughters of the Kingdom!
Praise ye God for having entered into this Great Cause which is the illumination of the universe and the promulgator of the Oneness of the world of humanity.  Ye have been freed from every prejudice and are exercising the utmost love and kindness to all religions.  Ye love all men and seek service to the world of humanity.
Santa Barbara was an ordinary girl, but as she sacrificed her life and her soul for Christ, consider ye how resplendently, like unto a star, she shines from the horizon of the world.
Even until the present day her light is still resplendent.
Upon ye be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 26 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
page 77
Akron Assembly
The friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, Akron, Ohio.-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye sons and daughters of the Kingdom!
Your letter was received.  From its contents the truth of the saying of His Holiness Christ was realized when He says:  "From all parts and regions they flock and enter into the Kingdom, while the sons of the Kingdom depart from it."  Now ye who belong to the distant and outlying regions of the world,-almost half the globe standing between us;-yet notwithstanding this remoteness, have been awakened by the Call of the Kingdom, have been made aware and, thanks be to God, ye have become attracted to the splendours of the Sun of Truth.
My hope is that ye may raise high the standard of the oneness of the world of humanity and that ye may become the cause of union and harmony among all the races and religions, so that mankind may unite, may fling away the garb of indifference and engage in affection, that the fire of religious, racial, political and patriotic prejudices may be quenched and the burning flame of the enkindled fire in the Mount of Sinai may illuminate the world.
The blessed pictures of those illumined souls have been noted.  Praise be to God, the light of God's love shines brilliantly in your faces.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 28 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Urbana Assembly
To the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, Urbana, Illinois.-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful!
Your detailed letter was a full exposition of firmness and steadfastness.  Although throughout these days of abundant trials the maintenance of perseverance and firmness was difficult yet the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, praise be to God, have remained like unto an immovable rock, firm
page 78
and steadfast.  Nay, rather, they have added to their stability.  It is customary and as a rule in times of trial the feeble souls waver and turn away and the firm souls who are endowed with the power of the Spirit double in energy and strength.  Adulterated copper turns totally black when thrown into the fire of test while pure gold increases in lustre and brilliancy.
His honour, Mr Vail, is indeed an ignited candle and likewise his respected wife.  They have no thought and no concern save the good of mankind and entertain no wish save the guidance of men.  Day and night they strive with heart and soul, they labour arduously and endeavour heartily that this mortal world may reflect the splendour of the sanctified Realm and these disturbed souls may become the embodiment of faith and assurance.
As to the meeting with the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful it is undoubtedly possible.  Praise be to God, the way will be levelled and the doors will be opened and traffic and travel will become easy.  But they must take into consideration the comfort of the journey so that no hardships may be endured on the way.
Concerning my travel to America, it is conditioned upon the harmony and the unity of the friends of God.  They must be so united as to have the effect of one soul so that like unto a magnet which draws to itself the iron they may attract me to America.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 28 January 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
page 79
Louise D. Boyle
To the maid-servant of God, Louise D. Boyle, Miami, Florida.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Your letter dated December 1918, was received.  Thou hast written that in these days, in view of these terrible battles and the extinction of the fire of war, a new capability has sprung in men.
It is evident that not until rain, snow, cold, storm and hurricane come to pass will the capacity for spring be attained.  In winter divine Providence prepares for the advent of the life-giving spring.
Similarly this terrible war has awakened people's minds and has given rise to sentiments of Universal Peace so that the divine teachings may exert an effect upon the peoples of all races.
At a time when I was in Europe and America, I raised high my voice in all temples and gatherings and it was published and circulated in the papers that-"O ye concourse of listeners!  An imminent danger lies ahead.  The whole of Europe has turned into a huge arsenal which a single spark will set ablaze.  The flame of war shall attain supreme height and Europe shall be convulsed and this Balkan strife shall lead to universal war; the foundations of the world of humanity shall quake, cities shall be demolished and villages shall be razed to the ground; fathers shall lose their sons and sons shall lose their fathers; mothers shall wail and children shall cry and lament.  O ye listeners!  Endeavour perchance, God willing, ye may prevent this fire from spreading and this storm from raging!"
Whatever was explicitly recorded in the epistles and Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh concerning future events was mentioned, but these exhortations were not accepted until this conflagration was set up.
At present all people have realized that war destroys the foundations of mankind and that men are in need of universal peace and similarly of the rest of the divine teachings.
page 80
Strive, therefore, that the light of the oneness of the world of humanity may be made resplendent, that misunderstanding among the religions and races of the world may be eliminated, that the nether world may reflect the realm on high and the Sun of Truth may shine over all regions.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 1 February 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
Juliet Thompson
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Juliet Thompson-Upon her be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  It contained the most great glad tidings, that is, praise be to God, in New York the divine believers are united and agreed.  For my heart there is no greater happiness than the unity and concord of the friends.  The progress of the world of humanity and the illumination of the hearts and lives of the people are realized through unity and agreement and the promotion of the Word of God.  Difference destroys the foundation of the divine edifice, causing coldness amongst the souls and the lethargy of all the active members.  I hope that, day by day, this bounty may become more revealed in New York.  Truly, I say, if the believers of God become united together with heart and soul, in a short while they will shine forth like unto the sun; they will obtain a joy and happiness the splendour of which will be cast upon all the regions of America.
Thou hast written that Mr Vail, Mr Ives and Mr Horace Holley have loosened eloquent tongues and in the explanation of the divine teachings they deliver fluent speeches.  This news also gave the utmost pleasure and delight.
Convey my longing greeting to the reverend minister whose name you mention in the letter and deliver to him this my message:
O thou dear friend!  A wise farmer scatters his seeds in rich, productive soil.  Those pure seeds are no other than the new, heavenly teachings and the rich soil is the hearts of the chosen ones.  Become thou a heavenly farmer.  Do not sow the seeds in barren soil.  These variant and confusing thoughts have no results and produce no fruit.  The time is spent without a crowning glory.  Consider that millions of leaders of thought have come to this world and have dedicated their lives to the propagation of different schools of ideas, yet they obtained no result but the Apostles of His Holiness Christ scattered such seeds that up to this date they are gathering many harvests.  There is no greater example than this.
Convey longing greeting on my behalf to each and all the friends.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 29 June 1916.


10:5, 5 June 1919
page 83
The sacred fire
Address by Chairman Howard MacNutt, of Brooklyn, N.Y., delivered at the opening of Second Session of the Bahá'í Congress at Hotel McAlpin, New York City, Sunday afternoon, 27 April 1919.
Alláh-u-Abhá!  "Like unto the cup-bearers of eternity, turn ye round in the assemblages of mankind the overflowing goblets of guidance, and intoxicate them with the wine of the Love of God." (Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.)
In the Words of Paradise, the Blessed Perfection, Bahá'u'lláh, has said:  "In this Day a great festival is taking place in the Realm above; for whatsoever was promised in the sacred Scriptures hath been fulfilled.  This is the Day of great rejoicing."29
Every Manifestation of God, who appeared in the world, saw this day in spiritual vision and perspective, announcing what he saw in the symbolical language of prophecy; for mankind could not bear the full proclamation of the reality.  That which we are now witnessing and what is yet to come, appeared to his inner sight in complete clearness.  After his ascension to the supreme world, his followers and believers crystallized his teachings and ceremonials in a temple of worship which became the expression and reflection of the divine religion in that age and cycle.  And now we see by the eye of heavenly illumination that the temple itself was but a symbol and prophetic sign; that the intended expression of divine purpose and goal of divine revelation was the conscious heart of man, the true and ultimate temple of the living God.  Therefore what we are witnessing in this day is the consummation of the plan and Covenant of God and the reality of His promised presence in the purified heart of humanity.
Furthermore, the most central symbol within the temple of worship was the altar of sacred fire which was always kept burning.  This Pentecostal flame, this fire from heaven, this fire of the love of God appeared with each Manifestation of the Word; the holy spiritual flame perpetually burning.  When that fire waned and grew dim, the religion of God became obscured and disintegrated; a change came; another Manifestation of God descended into the world from the Supreme Kingdom and with him the heavenly flame was lighted anew in the temple of its incarnation in human hearts.
Today we know and realize in the loveable personality and spiritual perfection of the glorious Servant of God, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that this sacred fire has come again into the world to glorify the heart of humanity, to purify, sanctify and illumine the universal heart of the nations.  This is the sacred fire of the heavenly Books and teachings, fulfilled and interpreted in its outer, inner and complete meaning.  We have clear evidence and definition of that sacred fire today in the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in the great principles set forth by him
page 84
in this country and throughout the world.  We have explanation of it in his teaching that the fire from heaven is the fire of the Holy Spirit; that the Holy Spirit is the divine beneficence and grace, the heavenly bestowal, the bounty of God, the generosity and confirmation of God; and that it descends upon those who are sincere and humble recipients.
Each one of these great Conventions we have held during the last ten years has seemed to me a manifestation of the sacred fire of divine love.  A heavenly flame, a heavenly power, the Holy Spirit of God has come down upon us at these Conventions.  Each time, each year, more and more we renew this bounty.  It comes stronger and lasts longer; the interim is not so great as the years increase.  And now spiritually attuned with the Centre of the Covenant we are awaiting its descent in the glorious meetings of this 1919 Convention.
...


10:5, 5 June 1919
page 84
The power of the Holy Spirit
Address by Louis G. Gregory, of Washington, D.C., delivered at the Second Session of the Bahá'í Congress, Sunday afternoon, 27 April 1919.
The finite cannot grasp the Infinite nor can the creature comprehend the Creator.  So we approach this subject, "The Power of the Holy Spirit", in a spirit of meekness and reverence, with a desire for evanescence in the path of God and to testify only to what He has revealed to us in the day of His appearance.  As "one of the journeys in the pathway of love is from the creatures to the creatures," the testimony of our companions on the ideal pathway confirms our happiness.
Truly we are living in a great and wonderful day, when the bounty of God's Holy Spirit is felt in all parts of the supreme world and the hearts of all humanity are quickened with this divine power.  A new consciousness of life, freedom, happiness and power is reaching all races, classes and conditions of men.  As is suggested by our learned brother, testimony of the Holy Spirit has been, from time immemorial, given in all the Holy Books.  This divine power has been the reality of all the messengers and prophets, the creative Word by which, as mighty speakers of God, they addressed themselves to the creatures.
The Holy Spirit is compared in some of the sacred writings to the air, because it covers the whole earth.  We are told that "the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind".  The outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost is symbolized by "the rushing of a mighty wind".  Bahá'u'lláh says:  "I was but a man like others, asleep upon My couch, when lo, the breezes of the All-Glorious were wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all that hath been."30  These are the symbols of an unwearied and irresistible power, the supreme might of God which creates and transforms the face of His universe.
page 85
Oft-times the Holy Spirit is symbolized by water, oft-times by fire.  The water and the fire are one.  The hearts become aflame with the divine fire.  They are purified by this fire from the dross of ignorance, superstition and imaginations.  Then they can quaff the water of knowledge; then they are initiated into the mysteries of God; then they can look upon all the created beings with a divine eye.  Yes, through the divine favour it becomes possible for the creatures to look upon the other created beings with the eye of God.  By seeing with the eye of God we mean the universal vision, for the divine gifts and bounties are universal in their adaptability to human needs.  The air we breathe cannot be confined to any household.  Shall anyone say:  "This air shall exist in my house but not in that of others?"  Or:  "This atmosphere shall be breathed by the people of my country and not by those of other nations?"  The air is universal because it is the bounty of God.
In like manner the radiance of the sun is a universal light.  We cannot limit the effulgence of that sun.  It shines for all the created beings.  It lights, cheers and warms the universe.  So it is when the Holy Spirit, the Sun of Truth, arises.  This healing influence penetrates to the utmost parts of the earth.  This bounty flows forth with a mighty power.  It conveys, with the greatest illumination, the most marvellous happiness, giving to the creatures the consciousness of the divine.  In our humble acceptance of this bounty we draw near to God, the Supreme.  It is reflected from the mirror of the hearts.
But in order to know this glorious Reality-which is the life of the world and the healing of the nations-we must know the mystery of God and His appearance in this world of ours.  We are told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá that, "The Holy Spirit is the Bounty of God and the luminous rays which emanate from the Manifestations; ...."31  It is a light which is not extinguished; it is a duration that never ends; it is a life that is never swallowed up by death; it is an honour which is not followed by abasement and shame.
Great is the opportunity of the people of earth in this marvellous day in which we are living, to see a new source of that wonderful power of attraction, guidance and supreme happiness.  In order to know the mystery of greatness and the secret of might it is necessary to draw near to the divine Messenger at the time of his appearance.  Shall we not accept the fulfilment of the prophecies of the Holy Books and realize that the day has come which is the sun of all the days of past centuries and ages?  The appearance of God Himself, His light in the world, His Tabernacle among men, this is the life of mankind, the true wealth of nations, the healing of all the people and their drawing together under the tent of the oneness of God and the oneness of all humanity.
When the Báb arose in Persia, creating in that far-off country, by the fire of his word, a moral and spiritual awakening, the power of that word or spirit was illustrated and proved by its attracting energy in the lives of the people whom he trained and educated.  When that Word went forth the query was asked, "Am I not your Lord?"  Wonderful souls arose who answered this call.  Prominent among these was Qurratu'l-'Ayn, a woman beautiful, clever, accomplished.  Yet with all her fair fame and good character, had she continued to live the conventional life, it is most improbable that she would have been known outside of the narrow limits of her environment.  But because she heard and heeded that wonderful voice, she was exalted to a supreme station.  She shone forth with a marvellous radiance.  She travelled through that country with a flaming sword, dividing truth from error.  The elevation of her character guided souls to the divine pathway.  She had discerned in
page 86
the divine call the duty and privilege of serving God.  She embraced the opportunity to serve her country, to exalt her fellow creatures, especially to help women, who in that country were for the most part in a most benighted condition, owing to the prevalence of superstition and the want of elevation and knowledge.  And because she heard this voice and at the call of her Lord arose to teach and guide the people, we find that her fame is spreading throughout the world.  Although she lived and taught in the Orient, her traces now appear in the Occident.  Whenever the cause of freedom for women is advanced we find traces of this illustrious woman who answered the call of her Lord and sacrificed her life for the freedom of humanity.  The power of the great Báb was demonstrated in the training of this soul by the power of the Holy Spirit.  But he trained not only one, but many thousands.  He was not only the herald of the new day but the divine Messenger, the First Point of Revelation.  He upturned the soil and planted the seeds of God.  He opened wide the gate for the appearance of God Himself in His greatest Manifestation to all the created beings.
The Báb finished his work and the splendour of Bahá'u'lláh arose like a brilliant sun enlightening the world.  And again the spiritual power was proved upon a more magnificent plane than men have ever known.  The spiritual power and the divine teachings of this Manifestation brighten the mind and gladden the heart.  Not only do they lend themselves to the peculiar needs of the individual, unfolding the divine plan for each of His children, but they are conducive to the needs of the world of humanity, unfolding those universal principles which enlighten, vivify and regenerate the world.
It is related that in the time of Bahá'u'lláh there was a boy in Persia who was not noted for his wit or intelligence and yet within him was a soul which responded to the universal call.  Thus he became one of the chosen and was entrusted by Bahá'u'lláh with a difficult and perilous mission.  At the appearance of the Manifestation of God it is necessary that the people shall know.  It is the divine wisdom that the kings and rulers of the people shall be informed of so marvellous an event.  As an instrument for carrying the Tablet of Bahá'u'lláh to the ruling power of Persia, the mighty Sháh, surrounded by his great soldiers and his elegant and dignified court, this simple, humble boy was selected.  We know the human limitations of this boy.  But what happened to him, the mighty transformation that was wrought when he was entrusted with this wonderful mission, is told by Bahá'u'lláh in the Tablet of Badí'.  He was called into the holy presence of Bahá'u'lláh and such a power was breathed upon him that he would have overcome the Supreme Concourse!  Then he was no longer Badí' he ignorant.  Then he became Badí' the wonderful!  Badí' the mighty!  Then he became a new creation, because his heart was illumined by the Spirit of Truth, the Word of God, the Light of Guidance.  He felt the vibrations of that mighty love, the presence of God standing within him, "powerful, mighty and supreme!"  His mission was executed in a way that will compel admiration as long as men pay a tribute to virtue and fidelity.  And again, through this spiritual outpouring scientific discoveries were increased and spiritual sacrifices were multiplied as the earth became more and more illumined by the face of God.
Now again that great power, the supreme Word, the manifest light goes forth to heal the nations and quicken the dead.  This time it descends upon the created beings from the Centre of the Covenant of God.  Bahá'u'lláh, speaking of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant of God, says, "He is the east of my Cause, the shining-place of
page 87
my identity, the sea of my bounty, the heaven of my will, the lamp of my guidance, the path of my justice, the standard of my laws.  Whoever hath turned to him hath turned to me."  So if we want now to know that mysterious force which is the source of life and power, we must turn with severed hearts to the Centre of the Covenant of God.  This is the dawning-place of righteousness and peace.  This is the mystery of God which is the mystery of divine love.
Love is the cause of the creation of all the beings.  It is the power of unity in all the universe of God.  Through His love for His creatures, through His will to be known, God created man.  We can only realize the divine image and likeness as we draw near to God in loving, sacrificial service to our fellow beings.  Thus the limitations of man depart, and his horizon is widened.  The distinctions of race and creed and religion no longer exist and the oneness of creation reflects the oneness of God.  But such a vision is impossible without the bounty of the Holy Spirit.  Through this ideal gift man is enabled to look over the created universe, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá says, with "the glorified vision of a seer and a prophet."
One way to become receptive to this heavenly visitation, which no one of the creatures can of himself merit, is to carry this message of unity to the people of the earth.  God wills to be known, and happy are those souls who respond to the desire of God!  The divine Message creates human unity, ideal brotherhood, heavenly harmony and universal peace.  It is also necessary to humble ourselves before the True One, knowing well that His ways are not our ways and His thoughts are not our thoughts.  Whenever a Messenger of God appeared in past cycles and ages, those who drew near to him with a desire for knowledge and in a spirit of loving service and humble submission, found their stations exalted by that Supreme Power and Manifest Light.  It is even so today.  The God whose manifest Word and Holy Spirit create us is not a God of poverty or of limitations.  He is the Lord of wealth, of affluence, of inexhaustible power.  He does not create us poor.  He creates us rich.  He desires that we shall be wealthy through the divine affluence.  He wills us to be strong through the divine strength; to be wise through the divine knowledge; to be illumined through the divine radiance.  Shall not our minds and hearts expand and grow through the great spiritual bounty which is the life of all the beings?
There are those who seem to rest contentedly in the thought that there is nothing new under the sun.  There are others who in their desire for the expansion of the soul and the ideal freedom, are ever striving for something new.  The savage may look upon the sun and find satisfaction in the thought that it is the same that shone upon his forefathers and ancestors for many generations.  He has the same light and warmth and wants nothing more.  But how different it is with the scientist, who regards the same sun!  Although he cannot know the essence of that sun, yet one by one he discovers more of its qualities and attributes.  He invents the solar spectrum and with its aid discovers the identity of the elements of the sun and of this earth, although the proportion and composition of these elements differ in different worlds.  He discovers the sun spots, those great apertures through which myriads of worlds might pass.  To the astonished vision of the scientist is revealed the great coats of the sun, the great spheres of radiance and the sources of the light.  He perceives the great masses of radium which are the dawning-places of its radiance and illumination.  As the poet says, "That which is, is but earnest of the things which are to be."
Who knows but that in the future,
page 90
through the evolution of science and religion and when the thoughts of all the world are concentrated upon peaceful and constructive measures, we may communicate with the inhabitants of that glorious sun, may respond to their vibrations of understanding and light and may quicken them to ours, so our hearts and minds are fixed upon noble, exalted and altruistic ideals!  Immobility is ever the cause of stagnation and death.  Motion is ever the cause of progress and life.  Man should ever strive to grow and develop along lines of both material and spiritual evolution.  Thus he may discover the mysteries of his own being and come to know himself, which we are told, on the highest authority, is identical with knowing God.
The Kingdom of God has descended, in accordance with the promises of past centuries and ages.  The invitation to be citizens of that great and glorious Kingdom is extended to each and all.  The light of God which is shining forth from His greatest Manifestation, Bahá'u'lláh, and the Centre of His Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, is veiled only by its intensity of splendour.  There have been numberless appearances of the divine Logos, the "Word made flesh", in past cycles and ages.  For these appearances have been the divine wisdom and mercy to the people of the world.  These lordly splendours have been the educators of the peoples and nations as they laid the foundations for all past civilizations.  The glories of the past, wonderful as
page 91
they have been, are veiled to us by the imitations, forms, interpretations and divisions that have crept in after the lapse of ages.  But now the supreme joy and the glorious knowledge of the appearance of God is ours.  The brief span of our lives upon earth is contemporaneous with the most marvellous event that has ever happened in all the ages.  This event has been the dream and promise of wise men, prophets and seers, in past centuries and ages.  How glorious to be living in the day of its fulfilment, when the whole earth is illumined by the face of its Lord!  By obedience to the divine commands we become conscious of the divine power.  It is the privilege of all who hear this Message to become instruments in the hands of God of quickening flesh with the spiritual power and of receiving the peace, harmony and security of the world of existence.
"To souls of fire He gives more fire and to those who are manful, a might that is more than man's!"
Truly if a man lived upon this earth one hundred thousand years, no higher hope, no brighter destiny could be his, than to be an instrument in the hands of God of bringing universal happiness to man.  The greatest souls of past ages, were it possible, would hasten to such an attainment and the kings of the earth, could they but know, would abandon their crowns for affinity with God in the day when His Kingdom is glorified by His greatest Manifestation and the Centre of His Covenant is living, moving and vibrating among men!
The gift of God is to be quickened by His Holy Spirit, to know His oneness, to realize His singleness, to be mindful of His appearance and to characterize our reality with His attributes.  This is drawing near to God, this is being illumined by His light; this is looking upon the face of His beauty.  This is the attainment of the station of man.  "This is eternal life and heavenly honour."


10:5, 5 June 1919
page 92
Religion must be the cause of amity and friendship
Address by Joseph H. Hannen, of Washington, D.C., delivered at the Second Session of the Bahá'í Congress, Sunday afternoon, 27 April 1919.
In the great principles laid down by Bahá'u'lláh for the government of the world in the new age that is to come, the third is that religion must be the cause of friendship and amity.
First let me quote to you from some of the sayings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá upon this subject:  "The basis of the teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is the Unity of Mankind, and his greatest desire was that love and goodwill should live in the heart of men.
"As He exhorted the people to do away with strife and discord, so I wish to explain to you the principal reason of the unrest among nations.  The chief cause is the misrepresentation of religion by the religious leaders and teachers.  They teach their followers to believe that their own form of religion is the only one pleasing to God, and that followers of any other persuasion are condemned by the All-Loving Father and deprived of His Mercy and Grace.  Hence arise among the peoples, disapproval, contempt, disputes and hatred.  If these religious prejudices could be swept away, the nations would soon enjoy peace and concord."32
"If only the whole world would acknowledge the greatness of Muhammad and all the Heaven-sent Teachers, strife and discord would soon vanish from the face of the earth, and God's Kingdom would come among men.
"... If men could only learn the lesson of mutual tolerance, understanding, and brotherly love, the unity of the world would soon be an established fact."33
The Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, has explained to us the principal reason of the unrest so apparent among the various religious groups of mankind:  The followers of each religious Teacher, Manifestation, Prophet-call him what you will-regard themselves as the chosen people of God, and all others as merely tolerated beings.
Now, in promulgating this great principles for the government of the world in the new age, Bahá'u'lláh has declared in the third, that religion must be the cause of amity and friendship.  All religion, like all love, is universal in its inception.  The child that loves its home, tenderly and unselfishly, is potentially the man who expresses much love.  The little girl who mothers her doll will make, we know, the best mother; and the mother is the heart of the nation; of the world.  But man is not content to continue upon the unselfish basis which marked all beginnings of real religion.  He would circumscribe the divine revelation of love-regarding himself and those of his persuasion as the children of God, and all others as being outside the love and care of an all-loving Father!  What a misapprehension!  And yet as an unselfish community, filled with the spirit of co-operation and brotherhood, is developed by binding together many families rich in family love, so God, today, having trained His people in the principles of spirituality, is bringing them together
page 93
on a basis of amity and concord.  All the past is but a preparation for this day, which is truly one of coming together, of unity-the promised day of all the ages, of all the cycles, of all dispensations.  This is the day of which Jesus, the Christ, spoke, when He said:  "Other sheep I have which are not of this fold.  Them also I must bring, and there shall be one fold and one shepherd."
Let us think of the people of the world from a spiritual standpoint; they are as several flocks, each under a different shepherd.  They are each gathered into different pastures, separated by walls-walls made not by God, but by man.  Gradually the existence of these walls breeds the selfish thought in the heart of each flock.  Each believes its pasture the only pasture; its shepherd the only shepherd.  At last, when selfishness through separation has reached its climax the mighty blast of the same all-powerful Spirit at whose command a trumpet blast destroyed the walls of Jericho, levels all walls of separation, and lo!-the One Great Shepherd appears, and the sheep, passing over lines where walls once stood, realize His presence, and know themselves every one as the sheep of God, knowing the Voice of One Shepherd!
Fancy the possibilities of unity, the possibilities of friendship, whereas before there existed suspicion and enmity.  This is the message of the divine Shepherd who has appeared today.  He has spoken-aye, He is speaking; and in the hearts of those capable of understanding the voice they have heard, the basis of a great unity has been practically established.  This is no idle dream, millions with understanding hearts have already heard the voice of Him who has joined them together in a bond which shall last forever!  For those of us who have had the privilege of seeing people of many races, many languages and different religions, meet as brothers, loving each other-recognizing points of contact and forgetting differences-in the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, there can be no question.  We are indeed living in the great day of unity-the great promised day of God.
Studying over this question, it seems to me that one of the great causes of dissension among religions is the loss of the dynamic element which rouses to action and lifts men from the lowest depths to the greatest heights.  In the early days of Christianity, for example, men were filled with the divine enthusiasm that spurred them to marvellous action.  Today we hear in the pulpits fervent prayers that God will raise His people to greater heights.  Aye, therein lies the weak point, that God shall raise them.  For as long as religion is passive and people depend upon something outside of themselves to elevate them, just so long will there be the selfish desire to be in the highest place; just so long will there be the personal creed, the thought that my way is the most direct way, the only way, and that those who do not follow after my way are lost.  But the religion that is dynamic, the religion that is active, is that of which our Lord Christ spoke when he said, "He who drinketh of the water that I shall give him, shall never thirst, but out of him shall proceed streams of living water", and so today the call is a call to action, the call is that through the power of the Holy Spirit as exemplified and given to us by the Centre of the Covenant we are to raise ourselves to the sublime, divine heights.  The way we do this is by raising others.  As we raise others to these higher thoughts, these higher ideals, we shall indeed raise ourselves and in this active conception of religion there can be no selfishness, there can be no enmity, there can be no prejudice, for we are all striving, perhaps through different paths, toward the same goal, and animated by the great unselfish conceptions which have been given to us today in the precepts of Bahá'u'lláh, and the teachings and
page 94
example of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, we shall find our greatest happiness in giving, giving, giving to others.
This is the day of the divine harmony.  Goethe compared the world's great religions to the strings of a harp, each of which gives forth a peculiar note of its own, while the harmonious blending of all produces a symphony of music.  Each of the seven great religions has its dominant note, its distinctive feature, a doctrine which differentiates it from all the rest.  The several melodies constitute, when blended, a symphony of universal religion.  The dominant note of Hinduism is the divine presence; the permeating note of Buddhism, renunciation; of Parsi-ism, purity; of Confucianism, reverence for the past; of Judaism, righteousness; of Christianity, love, and of Islám, submission.
Have you ever stopped to realize that seven major notes with variations and the demi-semi-tones and combinations make up all of the harmony of the world?  And so we have here outlined before us seven dominant notes representing the seven great religious systems of the world.  The creeds and the sects are many, and yet they are but variations of these seven primal notes.  These notes, these great divine strings are sadly out of tune.  There comes One then, the Author and Creator of all, and by the wonderful power of His Word attunes anew these strings, these seven great notes, and lo, when played upon by the master hand we have again sweeping from East to West, from continent to continent, from ocean to ocean, aye from world to world in this vast universe of ours, the divine harmony, the harmony of the new day.  There is no spot so remote but what that divine harmony may be heard by those whose ears are attuned to the Infinite; and so today it is our privilege to stand, to listen, and to make ourselves as reeds through which the divine breath may blow, as strings upon which the divine hand may play, and thus the world shall become one great symphony of love, of peace, of unity, of all the blessings of God's new day, the day of harmony, the day of unity through love.
Alláh-u-Abhá!


X:5, 5 June 1919
page 94
"Concerning the matter of receiving Orientals"
Recent Tablet to Joseph H. Hannen.
To his honour, Mr Hannen, Washington, D.C.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Your detailed letter dated 10 March 1919 was perused.  It imparted great joy and happiness that, praise be to God, the friends in Washington are in the utmost joy and fragrance and are acting and conducting themselves in accordance with the Covenant and the Testament.  They are kind to one another and are ready to sacrifice themselves for the promulgation of heavenly teachings.
Assuredly, invisible confirmation shall come to their aid and assistance and manifest light shall illumine their sight.
Concerning the matter of receiving Orientals regarding which you had inquired, affiliate and associate and exercise the utmost kindness to the Hindus, Chinese and Japanese Orientals for they have no bad intentions and are not ill-natured; but assuredly do not receive and associate with any Persian or Arab who may come to those regions without having an autographic letter of recommendation from me and bearing my signature.  He may perhaps go to those
page 95
regions in order to intrigue, to sow the seeds of sedition and to create difference and enmity.  The blessed souls, however, will undoubtedly carry with them a letter of recommendation from me.
I pray God that thy respected wife and the children may, under the shadow of the Covenant, be confirmed in the realization of their highest wish.
His honour Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb has undoubtedly reached that country by this time and is associating with you in the utmost love.  Convey to him, on my behalf, greeting and kindness.
Concerning thy mother, Mineola, Misses Fanny and Alma Knobloch, I supplicate for them the assistance and the favour of God.  Convey to them on my behalf the utmost kindness.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
Signed 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 26 April 1919.  House of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


X:5, 5 June 1919
page 95
"The Covenant of God shall remain stable and secure"
Recent Tablet to Roy C. Wilhelm.
To his honour Mr Roy Wilhelm, New York City.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant.
Your numerous letters have been received and their contents noted.  In every age and cycle, in the time of Moses, of His Holiness Christ and of His Holiness Muhammad as well as after these sacred Manifestations, some people of evil intention have been found and have sown the seeds of discord and of sedition.  Even after Christ, Arius, the well-known patriarch, was the cause of a widespread schism in the Cause of God and intense agitation among the believers.  His followers numbered even three million, and he as well as his successors exerted the utmost effort in order to produce a great split and a widespread commotion in the religion of God.  But eventually the power of Christ exterminated and utterly destroyed them all to the extent that no trace (of them) has been left.  These people are like the froth that gathers on the surface of the sea; a wave surges from the ocean of the Covenant and through the power of the Abhá Kingdom will cast these foams ashore.  In the Qur'án it is mentioned:  "As to the foam, it is quickly gone; and as to what is useful to man, it remaineth on the earth."  These corrupt thoughts that emanate from personal and evil intentions will all vanish, whereas the Covenant of God shall remain stable and secure.
The design that Mr Bourgeois has prepared and has indeed striven hard therein has been received.  Blessedness awaiteth him and a goodly home.
Convey, on my behalf the utmost love and kindness to thy respected parents.  As it has been previously wired, communicate directly with Haifa.
Convey to Miss Lloyd my greeting and my kindness.  I have the utmost longing for Mr Bourgeois.  In reality, this respected personage is worthy of praise.
You had written concerning the Wednesday evening gathering which was in the utmost spirituality.  From this distant region I felt the fragrance of that meeting.  Attach great importance to the Japanese people.  Mrs Magee should continually communicate with them.  As to Miss Rude and the aunt of Mr Edsall, convey to them my greeting. ...
Thou hadst written that the health of thy father and mother has improved; this news has made me very glad. ...
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 26 April 1919.  House of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.


X:5, 5 June 1919
page 96
"The ocean of the Covenant shall send forth a wave"
Recent Tablet to Louise R. Waite.
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Louise Waite, Los Angeles, California-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear maid-servant of Bahá'u'lláh!
The letter thou hadst written to his honour Mr Tudor-Pole was perused.  It is just what thou hadst written, namely, that the question of supreme importance centres around the promulgation of divine teachings.  This is conducive to amity among all denominations and races that dwell on earth, nay rather it links together the East and the West, binds closely together the North and the South, pitches the pavilion of the oneness of the world of humanity, lays the foundation of universal peace, emancipates mankind from the gloom of the world of nature and elevates it to the illumination of the Kingdom, secures freedom for all the hearts and gladdens the souls with the glad tidings of God.
As to the question of reincarnation which thou hast inquired:  It is better for thee to refer to the Book of Certitude (Kitáb-i-Íqán) revealed through the Supreme Pen, wherein the question is fully treated.  This is the explicit text of the divine utterance and therein thou shalt find that it has been manifestly declared that by "Return" is meant the return of human perfections and divine illumination.  The Book of Íqán has been translated and possesses the decisive verdict.  Consider and peruse it with the utmost carefulness.
Concerning the childish activities of some (violators) which thou hadst written about:  Praise be to God, thou hast been able to fulfil admirably thy mission.  Thou hast, armed with the power of the Covenant, resisted and surmounted these unwise and foolish attempts; thou hast protected the Cause of God and hast striven to expose and reveal the Truth to the people of that region.  These people are like unto children-at every hour they exhibit a fresh and puerile attempt, but all that is likened to a ripple on the surface of water.  Ere long thou shalt consider that no sign and no trace shall remain therefrom.  The ocean of the Covenant shall send forth a wave and shall disperse and throw out these foams.  Consider thou, at the time of Christ and after Him, how many childish attempts were made by different persons!  What claims they have advanced and what a multitude have they gathered around themselves!  Even Arius attracted to himself a million and a half followers and strove and endeavoured to sow the seeds of sedition in the Cause of Christ.  But eventually the sea of Christ surged and cast out all the gathering froth and nothing was left behind save everlasting malediction.
In fine, engage in the promulgation of divine teachings, that ye may serve in a distinguished manner the oneness of the world of humanity, may be the means of the propagation of universal peace, that the world of mankind may reflect, like unto a mirror, the divine Kingdom and that the lights of the realm on high may shine in the nether world.
Convey, on my behalf, to all the friends and particularly to thy respected husband, Mr Waite, the utmost love and kindness.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 15 March 1919.  Home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Haifa, Palestine.
[end of Book 5 (Vol. VIII, Nos 1-19; Vol. IX, Nos 1-19; and Vol. X, Nos 1-5)]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	VII:15, p. 147.
1	Foundations of World Unity, p. 43.
1	21 March:  the first day of the Bahá'í year, known as the Festival of Naw-Rúz.
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	An indispensable condition or qualification.
2	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	Refers to article reproduced on pp. 89-96.
1	Complete harmony or agreement; the entire range of a musical instrument or voice; or the entire range of some activity, emotion, etc.
1	A boiling or bubbling up; effervescence; or a sudden outburst, as of some emotion.
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	Contumacious:  insubordinate; stubbornly or willfully disobedient, especially to a court.
1	Bahá'u'lláh announced himself twice in Baghdád, once to a few in 1853, then to all his friends in 1863, in the garden of the Ridván.
1	nom-de-plume for Dr Ali-Kuli Khan ('Alí-Qulí Khán)
1	Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoken to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Miss Gertrude Buikema and Mr Albert R. Windust in his room at the Hotel Plaza, Chicago, 1 May 1912.
1	As a common noun, the word 'Áqá' in the Persian language is used as a title before a name.  It is similar to 'Mr' in English.  However, if used on its own as a proper name it signifies the exalted position of a person.
1	Alast was used to signify the night that the Qur'án was revealed to Muhammad and he received the message:  "Am I not thy God?" to which he replied affirmatively.-Translator.
2	Al-'urva comes from (al-'Urwa al-Wuthqá) meaning the Firmest handle or Most Trustworthy Hand hold that never breaks.  In Shí'ite Islám it is a reference to the Imáms and in the Bahá'í Writings it signifies attachment to The Covenant as the safest way of life, i.e. the Central Figures and now the Bahá'í Institutions.
3	Literally, camphor.  Symbolically it refers to a spring in heaven or an added spiritual flavour, etc.
4	Abú-Jahl was the uncle of Muhammad and his greatest enemy.  His name was Abu'l-Hakam (the father of wisdom); but for his envy and opposition, the prophet named him, Abú-Jahl (the father of ignorance.)-Dr Baghdádi.
1	Bahá'u'lláh
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	This title was later used by Mabel Hyde Paine for her compilation first published in the World Order magazine between April 1940 and September 1941, and as an independent title first in 1944.
1	Legendary king of Persia.
2	About 3,000 BC.
3	Legendary kings of Persia.
1	Were it not for the assistance of Miss Edna True, the lack of time would have prevented this servant from preparing such an article.  Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
2	Hand of the Cause of God.
1	Refer to Star of the West, VIII:6, p. 67.
1	Now named Mary.  It is about 290 kms south-east of 'Ishqábád in Turkmenistan.
1	An allusion to Mt. Sinai, meaning the Manifestation of God.-M.W.T.
1	Dr Ibráhím George Khayru'lláh.
1	Dried pulp of the unripe bitter apple.
1	"Very good!"
1	The Students were visiting the tomb of the Báb.
2	This is a talk to the believers visiting 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The students were also present.  These students visit the Holy Land during their vacations and most of them are permitted to live the whole summer near the tomb of the Báb on Mt. Carmel.-Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
1	Ambergris-This metaphor means the state of spontaneous prayer and communion with God.
1	Drusí is a Druse follower.
1	Original used the word kábús (or caboos) which means nightmare rather than influenza.
1	Káshghar is in Khurásán
2	The translator personally knows Áqá Djamal.  He was one of the famous teachers in Persia, but later he followed the náqidín [Covenant Breakers].  In a short time, his only son was accidentally killed by a horse.  He lost all of his possessions.  Although the believers left him to himself, yet he could not remain in any of the towns.  Finally he became a wanderer and died of shame, regret, remorse and fear.  Such is the end of those who violate the Covenant of God!-Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
3	The wife of the translator, Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.-Editors.
1	Translated by Dr Baghdádí, 9 July 1918 at Chicago, Illiniose.
1	It is worthy of note that one month later the great pandemic war began, "the war unparalleled in history".-The Editors.
1	A reference to the Báb.
2	Refer to file for Book 4, SW5.DOC-M.W.T.
1	Nom-de-plume of 'Alí-Qulí Khán.
1	Gloomy.
2	i.e. song.
1	Archaic form of the word poetry.
1	Nom-de-plume of 'Alí-Qulí Khán.
1	Refer to the Lawh-i-Dunyá (Tablet of the World), Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 93.
1	jeremiad:  a long lamentation or complaint-in allusion to the Lamentations of Jeremiah.
1	See also Star of the West, IX:10, p. 108.
1	Trickery, sophistry.
1	Emptiness, especially exhaustion from lack of nourishment.
1	He is now a Major-Editors.
1	Shoghi Effendi, in letters written on his behalf, has explained the significance of the "letters B and E".  They constitute the word "Be", which, he states, "means the creative Power of God Who through His command causes all things to come into being" and "the power of the Manifestation of God, His great spiritual creative force".
1	Her son, Erwin Harris, who died as a result of wounds on 7 October 1918 in Berkshire, England.
1	Booklets "Big Bens" and "Little Bens".
1	Bloodthirsty.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá refers to a book called Miftáhi Bábúl Abwáb-the key of the door of doors-written by Mihdí Khán in Egypt in the years 1907-1908.
3	The Sultán of Turkey, 'Abdu'l-Hamíd.
4	Muhammad Javád-i-Qazvíní lives in 'Akká and was well known among the early believers but now is a violator.
5	The "Lion of God" was a title given to 'Alí, the brave son-in-law of the Prophet Muhammad, by Muslims.
6	Rustam was a great Persian hero-"Hercules".
7	Sons of Áqá Muhammad Bakr Khán at Beirut College.
8	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 348.  Quoted text is not in this Talk.
9	Some similar statements are in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 22-23.
10	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 116.
11 	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 122.
12	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Proclamation of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 39.
13	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Proclamation of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 12-13.
14	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Proclamation of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 63.
15	E. G. Browne:  A Traveller's narrative, Vol. II, p. xxxvi.
16	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 29-30.
17	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 74.
18	'Abdu'l-Bahá quoted in Shoghi Effendi:  God Passes By, p. 351.
19	'Abdu'l-Bahá, reported in Star of the West, I:14, p. 7.
20	'Abdu'l-Bahá, reported in Star of the West, II:3, p. 7.
21	'Abdu'l-Bahá, reported in Star of the West, VI:15, p. 120; and XIII:1, pp. 6-7.
22	'Abdu'l-Bahá, reported in Star of the West, V:5, p. 67.
23	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 65-66.
24	Two paragraphs of this Tablet are in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 106.
25	Bloodthirsty.
26	This paragraph is in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, pp. 386-387.
27	Refers to Mysterious Forces of Civilization.
28	See page 33 of this issue.
29	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 78.
30	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 11.
31	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Some Answered Questions, p. 108.
32	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, pp. 45-46.
33	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 49.
[MW1]	It appears "religions" is more appropriate than "regions" here.
