This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  October 2000.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
from the George Ronald Book 3 reprint of
Star of the West1
Volume III, No. 19 (2 March 1913)
Volume IV, Nos 1-19 (21 March 1913-2 March 1914)
and
Volume V, Nos 1-10 (21 March 1912-8 September 1914)


III:19, 2 March 1913
page 3
With 'Abdu'l-Bahá in London
Extracts from letters written by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb,
16 December 1912.
At nine o'clock this morning we left the hotel in Liverpool, walking to the Lime street station, where we were to take the train for London, Monsieur Dreyfus-Barney going before to secure tickets.  Arriving at the station we took our compartment, M. Dreyfus-Barney, Ahmad Yazdí, Mrs Fraser and Miss Herrick travelling with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  On the way he spoke to Mrs Fraser and Miss Herrick and said, "I am most pleased with you.  You are the real servants of the Covenant."  To Mrs Fraser he said:  "You have written excellent articles in the papers in regard to the Cause, I will never forget these services of yours.  You must become like a burning torch so that you may be able to melt mountains of snow.  Europe is filled with mountains which are snow-capped all the year around.  May you attain to such a degree of heat that you may melt the snow.  Europe is submerged in materialism.  People are not thinking of God.  All their attention is turned toward matter and nature.  Like unto the cows they graze in the meadows which are overgrown with grass.  They can see nothing beyond their noses.  America is much better.  People in that country are investigating the Reality.  They are more susceptible to spiritual life."
At one-forty p.m. the train reached Euston station, London.  About fifty Bahá'ís were there to welcome 'Abdu'l-Bahá Lady Blomfield with her two daughters and automobile were at the station.  The Master went to 97 Cadogan Gardens without an interpreter.  Later on they told us that he spoke English to them all the time.  Lady Blomfield is a very remarkable woman, a most sincere Bahá'í, an active worker, and an enthusiastic speaker; really a wonderful woman.
'Abdu'l-Bahá rested part of the afternoon.  After a walk in the garden nearby, the newspaper men and women came.  The subjects covered a wide range; a review of his trip in America, a message to the people of London, a synopsis of the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and many minor questions.  Then he attended to his mail, acknowledging [a] telegram from Stuttgart expressing happiness at his safe arrival; invitations from Edinburgh, etc.  The Master is going to visit that country.
At eight o'clock we had dinner, at which several people were present, among whom was a minister of a church in Switzerland who had heard the Message.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke with him in detail, giving him an account of an imposing religious procession in Denver and its contrast with the simple life of Christ.  It was very graphic, very impressive and showed distinctly how far Christianity has lost sight of its original foundation.
17 December 1912
This morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke about America and the probability of his return to that country.  He said:  "God willing!  If I go to America another time I will go differently; but it is very difficult.  This first trip was made with great exertion."  As I was reading one of his addresses delivered in America, he said it would be well if all his addresses in that country could be printed in one or two volumes.  At present, he declared, they are all scattered and not collected.  He called attention to how quickly the Paris and London addresses delivered last year were printed; and this was done through one woman, Lady Blomfield.  Some one mentioned the name of a prominent wealthy woman and he said:  "One of these poor, sincere and honest women is more beloved by me than a thousand millionaires; just now this Lady Blomfield is dearer to me than all the queens of the world."
In Belfast, Ireland, lives a fine Bahá'í, a splendid believer.  She travelled all day and night to see the Master.  He welcomed her
page 4
most cordially and said:  "You must become the cause of the illumination of Ireland.  In Persia a woman came to the city of Ardistán from one of the surrounding villages.  She was made radiant and became a Bahá'í.  She returned to her home.  In one year she was enabled to ignite forty lamps, but now you must ignite four thousand lamps in one year.  Praise God, that you enjoy freedom in this country.  There was no freedom in Persia.  They used to kill the Bahá'ís.  If a Bahá'í desired to teach another, he had to do it with the utmost precaution."  This lady said that in speaking about the Revelation to the people, many are afraid of a new religion, saying, "Our old religion was good enough for our ancestors and it is good enough for us."  The Master said:  "They are like unto those souls who say:  'We don't like fresh flowers but we are satisfied with withered and decayed flowers.'  Decayed flowers do not have sweet fragrance; their odour is not good; they have no freshness and charm.  The fresher the flower the sweeter it is and the more charming.  If old and decayed flowers were good then the Adamic flower would have been sufficient.  Every new year needs a new flower, new fruits are necessary, fresh and gentle breezes are needed.  Every new day requires new food, you cannot partake of the decayed food of yesterday."
Speaking to Miss Jack, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "Those souls who consider themselves as imperfect, they are the people of the Kingdom.  Those persons who prefer themselves above others are egotists and worshippers of self; they are deprived of the graces of the Lord of mankind."
An Englishman, who is an Arabic professor in London, came with his wife to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who spoke to him in Arabic about America:  "The American people investigate everything.  Their minds are open, their ears are listening.  They comprehend the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  They are thirsty for this salubrious water.  They are a mighty nation, a noble people.  They love the Reality.  They are not limited.  They have a vast country and enjoy all the material blessings.  God has perfected His bounties for them.  They listen to every discussion with dignity, urbanity and politeness.  If it is in accord with reason they will accept it, if they do not understand they ask questions.  But the Egyptian people are very prejudiced, they are very dogmatic."  After talking with this Arabic scholar on many other interesting topics he came out to the reception room where people were gathered and gave a wonderful address.  It was on the conformity of all the problems of life with science and reason.  It was most interesting.
In the afternoon a reception was held at Caxton Hall.  There was a large gathering of people.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke on various subjects paying a great tribute to the Americans and emphasizing the love and unity which exists between the two countries.  Then the chairman of the meeting made some appropriate remarks and refreshments were served.  The Master walked back to his apartment.  No sooner had he arrived than people began to come.
When they left the apartment 'Abdu'l-Bahá told us one of the most thrilling incidents in the life of Bahá'u'lláh; how His property was pillaged; how with eleven others He was put in prison and later on brought before the clergy; how they bastinadoed Bahá'u'lláh; how He was threatened with death by the populace and how at last He was saved from the claws of these wolves.  It was most interesting to hear him speak about these incidents in the life of Bahá'u'lláh of which we know nothing.
18 December 1912
This morning Madame Dreyfus-Barney arrived from Paris, and the question of his trip to that city was discussed.  She looked well and happy.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered an address on the spiritual worlds.  The address was very inspiring and eloquent.  It conferred spiritual uplift and exalted our aspirations above this mundane life.  He spoke with Divine authority; his words were born of the spirit; his utterances created conviction; his very presence was a heavenly proof.
Professor Browne, who has written so much on the Bahá'í Faith, was present at the meeting and afterward he was called to the Master's room.  "The last time I met you," he said, "was twenty-two years ago in 'Akká under different environment, but now I have the pleasure of seeing you in London."  Then discussion commenced in Persian, for Professor Browne speaks Persian fluently.  Many subjects were discussed:  about Persia, history of the Faith, education of woman, inventions, etc.
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá went for a walk.  After walking a few blocks he called a taxi and we-the Persian friends-drove through the famous Hyde Park and Regent Park.  It was a rainy day and the streets were not very clean.
page 5
Then the Master spoke about the cleanliness of Broadway, New York, and its wonderful illumination by night.  He told them about the Ben Hur horses, the advertisement of Spring Water, the advertisement of pepsin, the advertisement of automobiles; and many others which are lighted at night; he told about the electric office in Denver which is a tall and magnificent building, how at night the whole structure; is lighted from top to bottom.  Our Persian friends in the taxi enjoyed the recital very much.  (Perhaps if I told them of the wonders of the new world they would think me out of my wits.)
After dinner a minister from one of the suburbs of the great Metropolis called.  'Abdu'l-Bahá praised his lack of prejudice and his fair-mindedness, saying that many of the ministers of today teach men prejudices and blind dogmas.  Then he told him the story of the Jewish Rabbi in Tiberias who was giving to the Jews such lessons that made them haughty and filled with pride and prejudices.
In the afternoon the Counsellor of the Persian Embassy called.  Again 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke about the greatness of America, its wonderful civilization and the Balkan war was touched upon.
Then the president of the Esperantists of England called, bringing with him the first translation of the New Testament in Esperanto, which he offered to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The Master spoke a great deal of the necessity of an international language, that the nations must organize an International Congress of Language, ratify it and then let it be studied in all the schools.  He said:  "All through America I have encouraged the Bahá'ís to study Esperanto and to the extent of my ability I will strive in its spread and promotion."
Later Hájí Amín, who is an old Bahá'í of the type of Siyyid Asadu'lláh, arrived with three young Persian Bahá'ís from Paris.  They had been staying in Paris for the past two weeks awaiting the arrival of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  They came from Persia.  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá received them, they threw themselves at his feet and wept.  It was a touching scene.  He took them up, kissed their cheeks and showed them much love.  Hájí Amín is a wonderful Bahá'í, the Master loves him very much and he is like a kind grandfather to all the friends in Persia.  Whenever the name of Hájí Amín is mentioned, those who have seen him before are made happy.
19 December 1912
It was most interesting to see dear Hájí Amín this morning come to 'Abdu'l-Bahá with the other Persians in the most reverential and happy manner to ask of the one they recognize as the Centre of the Covenant what they should do and what course of action they should follow as long as they have the privilege of being with him.  An interesting incident of the Cause was unfolded when Hájí Amín opened his handkerchief, in which he had petitions from many believers in the Orient.  What caught my eyes at first glance were two small loaves of bread and an apple which were sent from a Bahá'í from far off Russia.  This was all this poor man could send to the Beloved with his devotion and love.  'Abdu'l-Bahá looked at this love offering with such tenderness, with such joy and kindness in his eyes, that I shall never forget it.  He ate a piece of the stale bread and gave the rest to Siyyid Asadu'lláh for him to serve the rest at the table.  Hájí Amín then told of the general news from Persia, how the friends are united and happy, serving the Cause faithfully, receiving the news of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's trip in America and holding divine feasts of peace and good-fellowship.
Then the long line of interviews commenced.  One was an ardent suffragist, a militant one.  'Abdu'l-Bahá advised her that the women who are working for the interest of the enfranchisement of women should not commit unseemly acts, nor resort to violent measures, such as window smashing, police beating, train wrecking, letter-box destroying, etc.; nay, rather they should demand their rights with the power of intelligence, with scientific accomplishments, with artistic attainments.  Unseemly deeds would rather retard the realization of their cherished hope.  In this age a weak person resorts to frightful measures, but an intelligent person uses the superior power of intelligence and wisdom.
20 December 1912
We are now acclimatised to London weather.  It has been very nice so far.  About 8:30 this morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá came in the reception room.  He had tea, and later on Hájí Amín and the other Persians arrived.  By and by a few people gathered.  Someone spoke about divorce, whether it is permissible in the Bahá'í Faith.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said yes, but under certain restrictions.  All means of reconciliation must be tried and if there is absolute incompatibility of temper, then one year's sepa-
page 6
ration is advised, perchance the old union might be established.  However, if in the meantime they meet each other and no reconciliation is realized, then they start the year again.
Many people who called were mourning for the death of their husbands, daughters or mothers, and when at eleven o'clock 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered the crowded drawing room he spoke on the narrowness of this world, its trials, its vicissitudes, its ordeals and how a soul is really freed when it breaks this physical cage and ascends to the world of the Kingdom, when it wings its way from this dark world into the realm of radiance.  Therefore, we must not feel unhappy over the fate of those who have departed from this life.
Mrs Dower, formerly Miss Stevens, authoress of "The Mountain of God", was among the callers.  She came from Southampton to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Three years ago she stayed three or four months in 'Akká and Haifa and gathered material for her book.  The Master called her in and talked a great deal with her.  His room gradually became crowded by eager listeners.  He spoke about the "Promised One" and how all the nations and religions have circumscribed limits for His coming, and how when He came many rejected Him.  She is writing a book, a novel, about the Second Coming of Christ.
This afternoon, Mr Lorge, a prominent English educator, called.  The discussion was upon America, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the utmost praise to that country for its freedom, its civilization, its spiritual susceptibilities, its readiness of advancing toward the Kingdom of God, its quenchless thirst for knowledge, its progressive ideals, its future extraordinary illumination.  I have never heard 'Abdu'l-Bahá so enthusiastic about the wonderful possibilities of America.  "Europe," he said, "is steeped in a sea of materialism.  People are either agnostics or full of religious superstitions.  In America it is different, people are more spiritual, they seek the knowledge of God, they hail the truth no matter from what quarter it comes.  If they learn that there is a house in China[,] architecture of which is a marvel, they like to know all about it.  They analyze everything, they dissect everything.  In brief, they are a nation of independent investigators."  Then the question of spiritual communication was asked.  He answered:  "Yes, it is possible.  Often people speak together without the means of tongue.  There are two means of intercourse:  one the out ward tongue, the other the ideal tongue.  When the spirit is in an abstract mood, when the heart is in a subjective state, then the ideal tongue can speak, but as long as the spirit is preoccupied and the heart is objective in its activity it is impossible to attain to that station.  Consider:  Is there not an ideal union between the loved one and the beloved?  Often with a glance of the eye or a handshake a whole world of thought is conveyed without uttering a word.  It is possible to attain to such a state if we are set aglow with the Fire of the Love of God, if we are attracted, if we are as a burning torch, if we overlook material phenomena and objects."  In brief, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke a great deal along these lines, uttering many significant statements.
Then the Persian Ambassador came.  'Abdu'l-Bahá received him very graciously and kindly.  He praised the republican form of government in America, its federal system, its liberal institutions, its educational system, and its vast resources.  He paid a great tribute to Washington, D.C., and told about the parks, the avenues shaded by trees and the homes built amid beautiful surroundings.  In Chicago and New York there are many large parks.  Then he spoke about the situation in Persia, in Turkey, about the condition of the Persian students in Europe, etc.
In the evening we drove to Westminster Palace Hotel, where a great meeting was held.  Many writers, thinkers, literary men and distinguished personages were in the audience.  The audience was set aglow.  All the faces were shining, and all the people were responsive.  Indeed to have such a well attended meeting in London at this time of the year is nothing short of a miracle.
21 December 1912
In these days the Sun of Reality is shining upon these regions; many souls are being quickened and are alive to the importance of the Cause.  Last night 'Abdu'l-Bahá remarked that many people may think that a Persian has come, giving lectures and that is the end of it.  No!  In future every word uttered in the far cities of America will be collected and preserved.  This is through the Bounty and Favours of the Blessed Perfection.
As a result of last night's meeting many
page 7
came this morning to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá among them being a woman who had come forty miles to hear him last night and this morning she brought a book for the Master to sign.  She told of a young man who is an invalid and dumb, but he is so eager about the Cause that he would like to have the photograph of 'Abdu'l-Bahá with his autograph.  Although he is dumb and his hands are completely paralyzed, owing to an automobile accident, yet he holds the pens in his mouth and writes very well.  He reads a great deal and writes interesting articles for the magazines and papers.  'Abdu'l-Bahá sent him a very beautiful message, that although he is speechless yet he has the language of the heart and speaks with the tongue of the intellect.  He hopes that he will acquire the language of the Kingdom which is not in need of any outward means to convey the thought.
To another inquirer 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke about the Holy Land, saying, "Syria is the abode of the Prophets.  Jerusalem is located there, the traces of David and Solomon can be witnessed there, the birthplace of Christ is there.  In Palestine the spirit of man is dilated, because all the Prophets have come from there; the Divine Call has been raised in that country, and the Holy Books have been revealed there." Then he spoke about America:  "American people have great capabilities.  In England also one witnesses the signs of awakening.  In reality American and the English people are one.  The governments and the nations of both countries are noble and democratic."
Many other men and women had interviews, each one of them with his or her peculiar problems.  It was nearly twelve when he came into the crowded reception room and spoke about the various kinds of love:  family love, racial love, patriotic love and human love, showing that each of these loves is not sufficient except the love which is spiritual and is born of the Breath of the Holy Spirit.
At 3:30 p.m. the Beloved, with Mrs Cropper, Siyyid Asadu'lláh and myself, left in Mrs Cropper's automobile for the Church where "Eager Heart"1 is being presented.  There were more than 1,200 persons present.  The play on the whole was very effective, Miss Mary Blomfield, who took the part of Eager Heart, interpreted the character with a delicacy and artistic appreciation that was wonderful.  There were such longing, such unutterable desire in every movement and word for the King.  When Mary and Joseph came in with the child in her arms, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was so deeply touched that he wept.  The story is so touching, so sincere, so holy and so above the sordid elements of life:  The Master sat through the whole performance and was keenly interested in every act and move.  When the play was finished he was invited behind the stage and congratulated the players and musicians for their delightful work.  He gave them a long address about the prophecies of the Old Testament in regard to the Coming of the Messiah and how the Jews took those prophecies literally and what were their real significance.  Toward the end the actors were introduced to him and when he reached the angels he recommended them all to be angels as long as they live.
After supper the Master told us the wonderful story of Mary Magdalene, who went to Rome, presented herself in person before the Emperor and delivered a message unto him from the Christians.  It was a very romantic story.  The Master admires so much the character of Mary Magdalene.
Love to all
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb


III:19, 2 March 1913
page 8
Cablegram from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
From 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed to "Parsons-Remey, Washington, D.C.," dated at Paris, 14 February 1913:  "I am Servant of Bahá.  His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, is unique and peerless.  All must turn to Bahá'u'lláh.  This is the Religion of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Firmness in Covenant means love and obedience to the Command of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Announce this."
(Signed) Abbás


III:19, 2 March 1913
page 8
On teaching
Surely it will require great wisdom to bring this Truth before the world; but we are assured constantly that to him who endeavours to teach for the sake of God only-wisdom will be given in sufficient measure by the Holy Spirit.
The teacher should teach as offering a gift to a king, humbly and submissively, not with force of insistence, imperiously-that is strenuously-but with gentleness and sweetness:  submitting the argument and truth to the heart and intellect of the hearer as the servant of God, and therefore His servant-taking care at all times to adapt the offered food to the condition and station of the listener, giving milk for babes and meat for those grown stronger.
This food is to be offered for the sake of God, only, not for the hearer's sake, not for the benefit of yourself:  but simply because God wishes His Manifestation to become known and to become loved by those who come to know Him.
If one teaches one whom he loves because of his love for him-then he will not teach one whom he loves not; and that is not of God.  If one teaches in order to derive the promised benefit to himself, this too is not from God.  If he teaches because of God's Will that God may be known-and for that reason only, he will receive knowledge and wisdom, and his words will have effect-being made powerful by the Holy Spirit, and will take root in the souls of those who are in the right condition to receive them.  In such a case the benefit to the teacher in growth is as ninety per cent compared to the ten per cent of gain to the hearer, because he becomes like a tree bearing fruit through the power of God.
We are urgently instructed that the only real way to attain growth in the knowledge of the Truth of God, is not by hearing, but by doing; by being alive with the fire of the love of God and imparting as best we can to others the Tidings of the coming of the Kingdom.  This is the day of teaching.  We are all commanded to teach, but only in the way and for the purpose above named.
It is plain that this means entire self-abnegation, cutting the self from the world, abandoning all else save God and His Will, and in all humbleness doing His service for His sake only.
page 10
We are taught that if we offer the Truth of these teachings to any one, and they are refused, we must not be at all anxious, but leave them to themselves and pray for them.  We must use such wisdom as we have in presenting-but at no moment must we have anxiety for that person, but only for the spreading of the Truth of God; because at this time He (God) desires to be known.
The message in brief
Every spring of water is pure at its source:  the farther it wanders through the dust and earth, the more it becomes impregnated with that which is not water.  Thus he who would drink must find a new spring, or live in a condition of sickness through using the impure water.
When this condition has come and when the need for real or pure water arrives-the Great Provider of springs supplies a new one similar in kind and purity to the former-but sometimes of greater magnitude-that all the thirsty ones may drink to their heart's content, and become strong and well.
In the morning when the new daylight awakens the earth the air is pure and sweet, fresh, inspiring and filled with the medicine of life, but as the day progresses, the dust is stirred up, the smoke of man's devices poisons the air, and finally comes the darkness of the night, and man enters into sleep.
So in every dispensation of God, His Prophet, His Mouthpiece appears-bringing water, light, air, [and] truth for the world.  It is given forth pure by Him, but as the years pass man's self colours, distorts, muddies and poisons that Truth until spiritual night ensues when the Sun of the Heaven of Religion is darkened and the Moon of Religious teachings by the priesthood is split asunder-refuses to give its light and chaos threatens.
Then is seen in the East "the Sign of the Son of Man", the freshening of the new dawn, and then appears the arising of the Glorious Sun of Truth and Revelation.
In this our blessed age, that Sun has shone forth with all of its Glory as never before, with a brilliancy and splendour which this old earth has never known until now, except in the way of promises.
Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, et al., all manifested the Truth "of the Father"; but each promised that a greater One should appear at the consummation of the ages.  This One is The Father Himself.
All were pure mirrors showing to us the Sun of Righteousness reflected in themselves; but now the greatest of all, the manifested God Himself, Bahá'u'lláh ("The Glory of God"), has come!
The Sun of the seen and the unseen heavens of spirituality has shone upon the earth, upon mankind, in this lowest horizon, with wisdom, knowledge, law, compassion, suffering and patience, with generosity, sweetness, humbleness, with majesty, power, brilliancy and everlasting glory, teaching all who have ears to hear or eyes to see-by word of mouth, by word of pen, by precept and by example the way of God as it has never been given to the world before in all the ages of the past.
Blessed is he who sees and hears, and who walks therein!


IV:1, 21 March 1913
page 3
Message to Bahá'ís throughout the world
From 'Abdu'l-Bahá
A new year's greeting
God, the Maker of the worlds, hath created the realm of humanity to be the Paradise of Eden (or the Garden of Paradise) if the edifice of Peace, Reconciliation, Love, and Faithfulness is founded on a solid and firm basis; nay, rather, He hath willed it to become the mirror, reflecting the Delectable Paradise.  Then, and not until then, will all the divine bounties become manifold; happiness and well-being infinite; the virtues of the world of humanity revealed and resplendent; and the rays of the Sun of Reality visible from every direction.
Consider that his holiness Adam and others were living in Paradise.  But as soon as strife became known between him and Satan, every one was driven away from Eden, so that the children of humanity might learn a lesson and realize that quarrels and strife, even though with Satan, are conducive to deprivation.
Therefore, in this radiant century, according to the heavenly teachings, altercation and dispute are not allowable, even though assailed by Satan himself.
Astonishing is it, that notwithstanding the inculcation of this lesson, yet man has remained ignorant.  From one end of the world to the other, the realm of humanity is engaged in hostilities and war.  There is enmity between the religions.  There is hatred between the classes.  There is war between the fatherlands.  There is contention between the diplomats.  How delightful it would now be could these black clouds be dispersed from the horizon of the world, letting the light of Reality shine; the dust of slaughter and the crime of shedding blood be swept away; the breeze of providence from the Dawning-Place of Peace and Salvation be wafted; thus the world would become a new world, and the face of the earth receive new life from the rays of the divinely effulgent light of God.
Our hope is in the favours of the glorious Lord, trusting that His providence and protection will encircle us.  May the bitterness of struggle, warfare, and the cruelty of the blood-shedding sword be changed into the sweetness of friendship, reconciliation, righteousness, and justice!  May the tastes become sweetened, the nostrils perfumed, with the essence of the Rose.
May this New Year be made the occasion of the New Peace!  May this conference be assisted and aided to inaugurate an era of peace with justice, and to establish the basis of a fair treaty and agreement, so that their work may be blessed for ever and ever.
[Reprinted from The Christian Commonwealth]


IV:1, 21 March 1913
page 4
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Clifton, England
Isabel Fraser
'Abdu'l-Bahá was a guest at the Clifton Guest House over the night of 16 January, arriving by train at noon and leaving at noon the next day.  The host, Mr Tudor-Pole, took 'Abdu'l-Bahá for a drive in the afternoon, after which he re-met many of the guests and neighbours who dropped in to renew their acquaintance of a year ago.  In the evening about 150 gathered to hear the Master's message.  Mr Tudor-Pole was in the chair and introduced 'Abdu'l-Bahá by giving a short account of the Faith and of its marvellous growth in the last few years.  The Master entered, bestowing on them that smile which in itself is a benediction.  It was a notable gathering of east and west, with the central saintly figure.  Here and there was seen a scarlet fez which denoted the presence of eastern students.  'Abdu'l-Bahá on entering gave that courtly eastern greeting of raising the palms of his hands to his forehead, after which he told them that since last seeing them he had been half over the world.  "In fact," he said, "I have come to Clifton this time via Los Angeles and Chicago."  Then he began at once to speak, Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb interpreting.  'Abdu'l-Bahá commenced while seated on a couch, but soon he was on his feet, occasionally walking to and fro, and sometimes emphasizing a fact with upraised hand or standing still with eyes closed and his silver voice sunk low.
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Every age requires a central impetus or movement.  In this age, the boundaries of terrestrial things have extended; minds have taken on a broader range of vision; realities have been unfolded and the secrets of being have been brought into the realm of visibility.  What is the spirit of this age, what is its focal point?  It is the establishment of Universal Peace, the establishment of the knowledge that humanity is one family.  Think on the conditions of this world of humanity.  Nations have become like unto armed camps waiting to be ignited by the combustion of war.
Whereas in reality God has created man for love's sake.  God has endowed man with creation so that he may illumine the world with the flame of brotherhood and express the utmost state of unity and accord.  This state would express God's good pleasure; this would be the prosperity of the world of humanity.  A thousand times alas! that this glorious century has been besmeared with war and strife, hatred and rancour.  Bloodthirsty wolves are tearing the sheep of God.  Destruction is more widespread than in all the ages of the past.
We hear on every side praises of the wonders of this cycle, its achievements, its refinements, its genius; calling the past the age of mediaeval horror.  What mediaeval age held the horror of a Krupp gun, a Mauser rifle or a shrapnel shell that kills a whole camp?  On the sea we have the submarine and the dreadnought.  If you compare the past with this age, impartial judgement will call this the age of human fratricide.
All the religions are revealed for the sake of good fellowship.  The fundamentals, the foundations of all are fellowship, unity and love.  The heavenly books were revealed and divine love bestowed to bring about peace.  What has man made of religion?  He has made it the cause of bloodshed and strife; enmity and hatred.  Religion was destined to be a remedy for the sickness of humanity; an illumination for the darkness of uncertainty.  Have we then forgotten the divine teachings, cast aside the heavenly books, created imaginary thoughts and illusions and made them the basis of rancour and strife?  The Bible commands the practice of peace and justice.  God desires love.  In the gospel we find the golden statement that man should be expressive of love even unto his enemy; he should be expressive of love to his ill-wishers; he should be expressive of love to all his fellow men.  He must have an eye to pardon; he must have an eye to benevolence.  All the divine books invite men to these teachings.  All the divine prophets suffered that man might realize these teachings.  Consider what His Holiness Christ endured, how many vicissitudes he underwent, every day tasting a new poison, finally sacrificing his own life, so that the tent of love and concord might be raised over the world of humanity so that this dark world might be invested with divine light.  Alas! that all the travail of these holy souls and sanctified prophets should be wasted.  The world of humanity is in a stupor of sleep and it cannot grasp the realities.  The horizons of the minds are still beclouded and the hearts are occupied with phantasmal longings.  We seem never to think of the reason of creation;
page 5
never to strive to proclaim those principles which enlighten humanity.  In the sea of materialism we are sinking and of the Kingdom of God we know nothing.  We are not living in accord with those precious teachings of God.
Nearly 6o years ago when the horizon of the Orient was in a state of the utmost gloom, warfare existed and there was enmity between the various creeds; darkness brooded over the children of men and foul clouds of ignorance hid the sky-at such a time His Highness Bahá'u'lláh arose from the horizon of Persia like unto a shining sun.  He boldly proclaimed peace, writing to the kings of the earth and calling upon them to arise and assist in the hoisting of this banner.  In order to bring peace out of the chaos, he established certain precepts or principles:
Investigations of truth
The first principle Bahá'u'lláh urged was the independent investigation of truth.  "Each individual," he said, "is following the faith of his ancestors who themselves are lost in the maze of tradition.  Reality is steeped in dogmas and doctrines.  If each investigate for himself, he will find that Reality is one; does not admit of multiplicity; is not divisible.  All will find the same foundation and all will be at peace."
The unity of the race
The second principle of Bahá'u'lláh proclaims the oneness of the human race.  He states that humanity constitute the sheep of God.  God is the real shepherd.  When this shepherd is compassionate and kind, why should the sheep quarrel amongst themselves?  Addressing all humanity, Bahá'u'lláh says, "Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch.  All the nations, peoples and tongues are the branches, leaves, blossoms and fruits of this great tree of humanity."  God created all; protects all; provides for all and is kind to all; why should you be unkind?  If God had not loved humanity he would not have created it.  Creation presupposes love.  God is the real father; all are his children.  All the creatures are equal in this one family of God save whosoever is more kind, more compassionate,-he is nearer to God.
International peace
The third principle of the religion of Bahá'u'lláh is in regard to international peace.  There must be peace between the fatherlands; peace between the religions.  In this period of evolution the world of humanity is in danger.  Every war is against the good pleasure of the Lord of mankind.  Man is the edifice of God.  War destroys the divine edifice.  Peace is the stay of life; war the cause of death.  If an active, actual peace is brought about, the human world will attain to the utmost serenity and composure.  Wolves will be transformed into lambs; devils into angels and terrors into divine splendours in less than the twinkling of an eye.
Religion must conform to science and reason
The fourth principle declares that religion must be in conformity to science and reason.  If a religion does not agree with the postulates of science nor accord with the regulations of reason it is a bundle of superstitions; a phantasm of the brain.  Science and religion are realities, and if that religion to which we adhere be a reality it must needs conform to the fundamental reality of all things.
Prejudice must be forever banished
The fifth principle of Bahá'u'lláh is this that religious, racial, political and patriotic prejudice are the destroyers of human society.  As long as these prejudices last the world of humanity will not attain to poise and perfection.  As long as these threatening clouds are in the sky of humanity, the sun of reality cannot dawn.
Equality of sexes
The sixth principle of Bahá'u'lláh regards the equality of men and women.  The male and female of the human kingdom are equal before God.  God is no respecter of gender.  Whosoever practices more faith, whosover practices more humanitarianism is nearer to God; but between the male and female there is no innate difference because they share in common all the faculties.  The world of humanity has two wings, one the male; the other the female.  When both wings are reinforced with the same impulse the bird will be enabled to wing its flight heavenward to the summit of progress.  Woman must be given the same opportunities as man for perfecting herself in the attainments of learning, science and arts.  God has created the man and the woman equal, why should she be deprived of exercising the fullest opportunities afforded by life?  Why should we ever raise the question of superiority and inferiority?  In the animal kingdom the male and female enjoy suffrage
page 6
[laughter], and in the vegetable kingdom the plants all enjoy equal suffrage [laughter and applause].  In the human kingdom, which claims to be the realm of brotherhood and solidarity, why should we raise this question?
The social plan
The seventh teaching suggests a plan whereby all the individual members play enjoy the utmost comfort and welfare.  The degrees of society must be preserved.  The farmer will continue to till the soil, the artist pursue his art, the banker to finance the nation.  An army has need of its general, captain, and private soldiers.  The degrees varying with the pursuits are essential.  But in this Bahá'í plan there is no class hatred.  Each is to be protected and each individual member of the body politic is to live in the greatest comfort and happiness.  Work is to be provided for all and there will be no needy ones to be seen in the streets.
The parliament of man
The eighth principle declares that there must needs be established the parliament of man or court of last appeals for international questions.  The members of this arbitral court of justice will be representatives of all the nations.  In each nation the members must be ratified by the government and the king or ruler, and this international parliament will be under the protection of the world of humanity.  In it all international difficulties will be settled.
Universal education
The ninth admonition is in regard to education.  All the children must be educated so that there will not remain one single individual without an education.  In cases of inability on the part of the parents through sickness, death, etc., the state must educate the child.  In addition to this widespread education, each child must be taught a profession or trade so that each individual member of the body politic will be enabled to earn his own living and at the same time serve the community.  Work done in the spirit of service is worship.  From this universal system of education misunderstandings will be expelled from amongst the children of men.
Universal language
The tenth principle is the establishment of a universal language so that we will not have to acquire so many languages in the future.  In the schools they will study two, the mother tongue and the international auxiliary language.  The use of an international auxiliary language will become a great means of dispelling the differences between nations.
There are many other teachings.1  I have given you but a few.  Praise be to God! that day by day we are advancing and every day we see some new blessing descending.  Let all of us render thanksgiving to our generous Lord that he may bless our eyes with sight and give unto our hearts understanding.  May we become resuscitated with the breath of the Holy Spirit.  May we be enabled to leave behind the world of matter in beholding the bounties of God.  The divine table is spread, the heavenly illumination is all-encircling; eternal life is provided for all; divine food is prepared for all!  Therefore let us practice the divine essence of love and love each other from our very hearts and souls so that the East and West shall embrace each other and realize that all are the sheep of God.  God is the good shepherd-then will we gather under the tabernacle of His mercy!
__________
Afterward in the library the guests were afforded the honour of meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá and one picturesque little group that lingered behind the rest pleased him mightily.  There were five Egyptian students wearing the red fez, 'Abdu'l-Bahá's suite standing in the background wearing the black fez-there was a German, a Californian and a Welshman, whose work lay in a Universal Brotherhood movement and on whose work 'Abdu'l-Bahá pronounced a beautiful blessing.
Then changing his mood and laughing heartily he talked in Arabic to the students and, as befitting the occasion, he emphasized again the great necessity for a Universal language.  He said that in the future many such groups would gather from the four corners of the earth for the purpose of mutual understanding.


IV:1, 21 March 1913
page 16
"Teach the cause!  Convey the message!  Awaken souls!"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá uttered in England, 16 January 1913
The Cause has become very great.  Many souls are entering it-souls with different mentalities and degrees of understanding.  Complex difficulties constantly rise before us.  The administration of the Cause has become most difficult.  Conflicting thought and theories attack the Cause from every side.  Now consider to what extent the believers in God must become firm and soul-sacrificing.  Every one of the friends must become the essence of essences; each one must become a brilliant lamp.  People all around the world are entering the Cause; people of various tribes and nations and religions and sects.  It is most difficult to administer to such heterogeneous elements.  Wisdom and Divine insight are necessary.  Firmness and steadfastness are needed at such a crucial period of the Cause.
All the meetings must be for teaching the Cause and spreading the Message, and suffering the souls to enter in the Kingdom of Bahá'u'lláh.  Look at me.  All my thoughts are centred around the proclamation of the Kingdom.  I have a Lamp in my hand searching through the lands and seas to find souls who can become heralds of the Cause.  Day and night I am engaged in this work.  Any other deliberations in the meetings are futile and fruitless.  Convey the Message!  Attract the hearts!  Sow the seeds!  Teach the Cause to those who do not know.
It is now six months that Siyyid Asadu'lláh has implored that I write a few lines to my sister and my daughters.  I have not done this because I find I must teach.  I enter all meetings, all churches, so that the Cause may be spread.  When the Most Important work is before our sight, we must let go the Important one.
If the meetings or Spiritual Assembly has any other occupation, the time is spent in futility.  All the deliberations, all consultation, all the talks and addresses must revolve around one focal centre and that is:  Teach the Cause!  Teach!  Teach!  Convey the Message!  Awaken the souls!  Now is the time of laying the foundation.  Now must we gather brick, stone, wood, iron, and other building materials!  Now is not the time of decoration.  We must strive day and night and think and work.  What can I say that may become effective?  What can I do that may bring results?  What can I write that may bring forth fruits?  Nothing else will be useful, today.  The interests of such a Glorious Cause will not advance without undivided attention.  While we are carrying this load we cannot carry any other load!


IV:1, 21 March 1913
page 18
"Crumbs" from the table of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
From notes by Mr Howard MacNutt.
One of the Bahá'í Friends said to 'Abdu'l-Bahá "What we expected in connection with your visit to America has not happened and what we did not expect to happen has indeed come to pass.  We expected an attitude of hostility toward you by the clergy and theologians.  Instead of this they have welcomed you in the spirit of fairness and sincerity.  We did not expect the churches and religious societies would open their doers, but they have done so and most of your important public addresses have been delivered from pulpits of various denominations."
'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, "According to the record of three Gospels, His Holiness Jesus Christ went into the Temple of Jerusalem, rebuked the Jews for the degeneracy of their worship into materialistic forms and delivered the Message of Divine Glad-tidings.  For nineteen hundred years this has been pointed out by Christians as a most wonderful event,-that His Holiness without opposition from the Jews was permitted to enter their most sacred place of worship and proclaim the Word of God.  Consider what has happened in this century.  During the past year we have been welcomed in churches and pulpits of Europe and America by different denominations,-upraising the Divine Standard of Unity, summoning man kind to the Glad Tidings of the Most Great Peace, proclaiming the Reality of the Kingdom of Abhá.  And this has been accomplished not only without opposition but by invitation, and in a spirit of the utmost love and fragrance.  Consider therefore the wonderful influence and importance of this in the future."
___________
"In my talks with the reverend doctors of religion and men of the peace societies I have spoken the Glad-tidings of Bahá'u'lláh but always according to their varying need and capacity.  As capacities differ, the purpose must be to satisfy the degree of hunger, destroy all possible antagonism and establish a point of agreement.  We cannot induce men to lay down their arms by fighting with there.  War intensifies the spirit of strife.  War begets war.  We are peacemakers, not destroyers of peace.  Therefore 'Abdu'l-Bahá finds the note of harmony which vibrates in every human heart.  This is our subtle basis.  Build upon it.  Follow no other method.  Talk about things upon which we agree and say nothing about things upon which we differ.  We must disorganize humanism in order to construct a spiritual edifice in the world of humanity.  This edifice is heavenly but its foundations are planted in the unity of human hearts."


IV:1, 21 March 1913
page 20
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
To the Believers of God and the Maid-servants of the Merciful throughout the World.
[Revealed several years ago]
Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye spiritual friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
"Perfume Thou the East!  Illumine Thou the West!  Bestow Thou light to the North!  Grant Thou life to the South!"
This verse hath been revealed from the lips of the Centre of the Covenant one year after the departure of Bahá'u'lláh.  But the Nakezeen1 (not understanding its spiritual purport) wondered and derided.  Praise be to God! that now its signs have become manifest, its powers evident, and its proof plain.  Thanks be unto Him! that the East and the West are stirred into cheerfulness, and through the Holy Fragrances all directions are perfumed.
The Blessed Perfection, in a clear text, hath promised us in the Book:  "Verily I behold you from the horizon of Abhá and will make victorious whomsoever will arise in the service of my Cause with the hosts of the Supreme Concourse and the cohorts of the favoured angels."  Praise be to God! that this victory and confirmation became visible and manifest and hath shone forth from the horizon of the world like unto the sun.
Therefore, O ye friends of God!  Show ye forth an earnest endeavour and display ye a resolute effort, so that ye may become assisted in the adoration of the Ancient Beauty and the Manifest Light; to be the cause of spreading the light of the Sun of Truth; to infuse into the dead, antiquated body of the world a new spirit; to cast in the fields of the hearts pure seeds; to arise in the service of the Cause; to speak with eloquent tongues; to become candles of guidance in the assemblage of the world; to become shining stars in the horizon of the existent being; to become merciful birds in the rose garden of oneness; to sing the melodies of realities and significances; to spend every breath of your existence in the service of this conspicuous light; so that in the end ye may be freed from loss and failure and attain to the inexhaustible treasury of the Kingdom.  For the life of man is wholly subject to danger and impermanency.  A person cannot put his assurance even in one moment's continuity.  Notwithstanding this, the nations of the world, deceived by the mirage of superstition, imagine themselves secure in the heavenly way.  Alas!  Alas!  Former commu-
page 21
nities in bygone ages entertained the same perishing thoughts; but by one of those periodical fluctuations they were all hidden under the ground, and afflicted with deprivation and loss, except those souls who had become pure evanescence and had arisen with a great self-abnegation in the path of God.  Such souls shine forth as brilliant stars from the horizon of the Ancient Glory, and the results which emanated from their lives in succeeding ages and cycles are the proofs of this statement.  Therefore, do not ye rest, neither day nor night; seek not ye for composure; talk ye of the mystery of servitude, and seek ye the path of thraldom; so that through the promised confirmations ye may receive assistance from the Kingdom of Oneness.
O ye friends!  Dense and gloomy clouds have covered the horizon of the world, and the darkness of hatred, malignity, persecution, tyranny and the greatest cruelty is spreading.  All the people are drunk with the wine of heedlessness; and bloodthirstiness and rapaciousness are considered the noblest excellencies of the world of men.
His Highness the Almighty hath chosen the friends from among the concourse of men and hath especialized them with the most eminent guidance and the highest gift; so that we may with our souls and hearts exert ourselves, sacrifice our lives, be engaged in the guidance of the people and the training of souls; so that the wild beasts may become the gazelles of the meadows of unity; the wolves the sheep of God; the bloodthirsty ones the heavenly angels; the fire of malice be extinguished and the flame of safety in the blessed tabernacle bestow illumination; the odour of the nether realm of infidelity be dispelled and the fragrances of the rose garden of faithfulness be diffused in all parts; the weak draw light from the Universal Reason and evil souls seek to be purified with the holy and divine Breath.  There are needed manifestors for this gift; farmers for this field; gardeners for this rose garden; fishers for this sea; luminous stars for this heaven; spiritual physicians for these ill ones, and loving guides for these wanderers; so that they may bestow a share on those who are deprived, grant a portion to those who are shareless, give unmeasured treasure to the indigent ones, and show forth the power of proof to the seekers.
Glory be unto Thee, O my God!  I supplicate unto Thee, O Thou my Helper!  I invoke Thee, O Thou my Refuge!  I utter to Thee my agonies, O Thou my Physician, and entreat Thee with all my heart, my soul and my spirit, saying:  O my God!  O my God!  Verily, the gloomy night hath fallen upon all regions and the clouds of ignorance have extended in all directions; the people are immersed in the darkness of surmise and the tyrants are sunk in the depths of brutality and lawlessness.  The red glare of the burning fire is flashing forth from the nether world, roaring, ominous voices are rising from the cruel, destructive and terrible armaments; every region is crying out with its dumb secret tongue:  "Nothing that I possess hath benefited me and power and strength are taken away from me!"  Verily, O my God, the lamps of guidance are extinguished; the fire of animosity is enkindled; wrath and antipathy are spread abroad and provocation and maliciousness are disseminated upon the face of the earth.  Yet I see only Thy wronged followers who are crying at the tops of their voices and summoning the people:
Hasten ye toward affinity!
Hasten ye toward faithfulness!
Hasten ye toward generosity!
Hasten ye toward guidance!
Hasten ye toward union!
Hasten ye to behold the Light of the World!
Hasten ye toward love and prosperity!
Hasten ye toward peace and reconciliation
Hasten ye toward the law of disarmament!
Hasten ye toward harmony and success!
Hasten ye toward co-operation and mutual help in the path of guidance!
Verily, these wronged ones do sacrifice themselves with infinite joy and happiness for the sake of the people, with all their souls and spirits throughout all regions.  Verily, Thou beholdest them weeping at the misfortunes of every one of Thy creatures and becoming grieved at the distress of Thy children; they are kind to all the people and pained at the sight of the calamities of the inhabitants of the world.  O my Lord! make the wings of prosperity to grow upon their shoulders, so that they may ever soar toward the apex of their aspirations; strengthen their loins in the service of Thy people, and confirm them in the thraldom and adoration of the threshold of Thy Holiness.
Verily, Thou art the Merciful!  Thou art the Clement, and there is no God but Thee, the Powerful, the Compassionate, and the Ancient!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:2, 9 April 1913
page 34
'Abdu'l-Bahá addresses the Esperantists of Edinburgh and Paris
Address delivered in Edinburgh
7 January 1913-under the auspices of the Edinburgh Esperanto Society
From The British Esperantist, February, 1913
Every movement which promotes unity and harmony in the world is good, and everything which creates discord and discontent is bad.  This is a century of illumination, surpassing all others in its many discoveries, its great inventions, and its vast and varied undertakings.  But the greatest achievement of the age in conferring profit and pleasure on mankind is the creation of an auxiliary language for all.  Oneness of language creates oneness of heart.  Oneness of language engenders peace and harmony.  It sweeps away all misunderstandings among peoples.  It establishes harmony among the children of men.  It gives to the human intellect a broader conception, a more commanding point of view.
Today the greatest need of humanity is to understand and to be understood.  With the help of the International Language, every individual member of a community can learn of world happenings and become in touch with the ethical and scientific discoveries of the age.  The auxiliary international language gives to us the key-the key of keys-which unlocks the secrets of the past.  By its aid every nation henceforth will be able easily and without difficulty to work out its own scientific discoveries.
It is a well-known fact that the Oriental student coming to the West, in his efforts to acquaint himself with the discoveries and achievements of western civilization, must spend precious years of his life in acquiring the language of the land to which he comes before he can turn to the study of the special science in which he is interested.  For example, let us suppose that a youth from India, Persia, Turkistán or Arabia comes to this country to study medicine.  He must first struggle with the English language for four years, to the exclusion of all else, before he can even begin the study of medicine.  Whereas, if the auxiliary international language were taught in all the schools during his childhood, he would learn the language in his own country, and afterwards, wherever he wished to go, he could easily pursue his speciality without loss of some of the best years of his life.
Today if one wishes to travel abroad, even though possessed of several languages, he is likely to be seriously handicapped because he does not know the particular language of
page 35
some one people.  I have studied oriental languages profoundly and know the Arabic better than the Arabians themselves.  I have studied Turkish and Persian in my native land, besides other languages of the East, nevertheless, when I visited the West I had to take an interpreter with me quite as if I knew no language.  Now if the International Language were generally spoken, that and the Persian language would be sufficient for me in every country of the world.
Only think how the International Language will facilitate intercommunication among all the nations of the earth.  Half of our lives are consumed in acquiring a knowledge of languages, for in this enlightened age every man who hopes to travel in Asia and Africa and Europe must learn several languages in order that he may converse with their peoples.  But no sooner does he acquire one language than another is needed.  Thus one's whole life may be passed in acquiring those languages which are a hindrance to international communication.  The International Language frees humanity from all these problems.
In a word, to understand and be understood, there must be an international medium.  The teacher and the pupil must know each other's language, in order that the teacher may impart his knowledge and the pupil receive it.  In all the world there is nothing more important than to be understood by your fellowmen, for upon this depends the progress of civilization itself.  To acquire a knowledge of the arts and sciences one must know how to speak, to understand and at the same time to make himself understood, and this matter of understanding and being understood depends on language.  Once establish this auxiliary language, and all will be enabled to understand each other.
I recall an incident which occurred in Baghdád.  There were two friends who knew not each other's language.  One fell ill, the other visited him, but not being able to express his sympathy in words, resorted to gesture, as if to say, "How do you feel?" with another sign the sick replied, "I shall soon be dead;" and his visitor, believing the gesture to indicate that he was getting better, said, "God be praised!"
From such illustrations you will admit that the greatest thing in the world is to be able to make yourself understood by your friends and to understand them, and that there is no greater handicap in the world than not to be able to communicate your thoughts to others.  But with an auxiliary language all these difficulties disappear.
Now, praise be to God, that language has been created-Esperanto.  This is one of the special gifts of this luminous century, one of the most remarkable achievements of this great age.
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh many years ago wrote a book called "The Most Holy Book", one of the fundamental principles of which is the necessity of creating an International Language, and He explains the great good and advantage that will result from its use.
Now let us thank the Lord because the Esperanto language has been created.  We have commanded all the Bahá'ís in the Orient to study this language very carefully, and ere long it will spread all over the East.  I pray you, Esperantists and non-Esperantists, to work with zeal for the spread of this language, for it will hasten the coming of that day, that millennial day, foretold by prophets and seers, that day when, it is said, the wolf and the lamb shall drink from the same fountain, the lion and the deer shall feed in the same pasture.  The meaning of this holy word is that hostile races, warring nations, differing religions, shall become united in the spirit of love.
I repeat, the most important thing in the world is the realization of an auxiliary international language.  Oneness of language will transform mankind into one world, remove religious misunderstandings, and unite East and West in the spirit of brotherhood and love.  Oneness of language will change this world from many families into one family.  This auxiliary international language will gather the nations under one standard, as if the five continents of the world had become one, for then mutual interchange of thought will be possible for all.  It will remove ignorance and superstition, since each child of whatever race or nation can pursue his studies in science and art, needing but two languages-his own and the International.  The world of matter will become the expression of the world of mind.  Then discoveries will be revealed, inventions will multiply, the sciences advance by leaps and bounds, the scientific culture of the earth will develop along broader lines.  Then the nations will be enabled to utilize the latest and best thought, because expressed in the International Language.
If the International Language becomes a factor of the future, all the Eastern peoples will be enabled to acquaint themselves with the
page 36
sciences of the West, and in turn the Western nations will become familiar with the thoughts and ideas of the East, thereby improving the condition of both.  In short, with the establishment of this International Language the world of mankind will become another world and extraordinary will be the progress.  It is our hope, then, that the language Esperanto will soon spread throughout the whole world, in order that all people may be able to live together in the spirit of friendship and love.


IV:2, 9 April 1913
page 36
Address delivered in Paris
From Persian notes; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the Paris Esperanto group 12 February, at a banquet which was tended him at the Hotel Modern, in that city.  M. Bourlet, President of the Paris Esperanto Society, introduced 'Abdu'l-Bahá briefly, stating that one of the revealed principles of this great Peace Prophet's world religion was the establishment of a universal language.
There was a deep silence as 'Abdu'l-Bahá rose majestically.  His remarks were punctuated by cheers and applause as he walked up and down the banquet hall, stopping to emphasize with frequent gesture.  He spoke in Persian, M. Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney of Paris interpreting into French.  Here and there one noted that the French translation was undergoing still further interpretation by Esperantists who had neighbours that did not understand French but knew Esperanto:  the occasion itself offering a noteworthy argument for the great necessity of a universal tongue.
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
In the material world of existence, human undertakings are divided into two kinds-universal and specific.  The result of every universal effort is infinite and the outcome of every specific effort is finite.
In this age, those human problems which create a general interest are universal; their results are likewise universal, for humanity has become interdependent.  The international laws of today are of vast importance since international politics are bringing nations nearer to one another.  It is a general axiom that in the world of human endeavour, every universal affair commands attention and its results and benefits are limitless.  Therefore let us say that every universal cause is divine and every specific matter is human.  The universal light for this planet is from the sun and the special light here tonight, which is electric, illumines this banquet hall through the invention of man.  In like manner the activities which are trying to establish solidarity between the nations and infuse the spirit of universalism in the hearts of the children of men are like unto divine rays from the Sun of Reality, and the brightest ray is the coming of the universal language.  Its achievement is the greatest virtue of the age, for such an instrument will remove misunderstandings from among the peoples of the earth and will cement their hearts together.  This medium will enable each individual member of the human family to be informed of the scientific accomplishments of all his fellowmen.
The basis of knowledge and the excellencies of endeavour in this world are to teach and to be taught.  To acquire sciences and to teach them in turn depends upon language and when the international auxiliary language becomes universal, it is easily conceivable that the acquirement of knowledge and instruction will likewise become universal.
No doubt you are aware that in the past ages a common language shared by various nations created a spirit of solidarity among them.  For instance, 1,300 years ago, there were many divergent nationalities in the Orient.  There were Copts in Egypt, Syrians in Syria, Assyrians and Babylonians in Baghdád and along the River Mesapotamia.  There existed among these peoples rank hatred, but as they were gradually brought nearer through common protection and common interests, the Arabic language grew to be the means of intercommunication, and they became as one nation.  They all speak the Arabic language to this day.  In Syria if you ask any one of them he will say, "I am an Arab," though in reality he is not-some are Greeks, others Jews, etc.
We say "This man is a German, the other an Italian, a Frenchman, an Englishman," etc.  All belong to the great human family, yet language is the barrier between them.  The greatest working basis for bringing about unity and harmony among the nations is the teaching of a universal tongue.  Writing on this subject, 50 years ago, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh said that complete union between the various sections of the world would be an unrealized dream as long as an international language was not established.
page 37
Misunderstandings keep people from mutual association and these misunderstandings will not be dispelled except through the medium of a common ground of communication.  Every intelligent man will bear testimony to this.
The people of the Orient are not fully informed of the events in the West and the West cannot put itself into sympathetic touch with the East.  Their thoughts are closed in a casket-the universal language will be the master key to open it.  Western books will be translated into that language and the Easterner will be informed of the contents; likewise Eastern lore will become the property of the West.  Thus also will those misunderstandings which exist between the different religions be dispersed.  Religious prejudices play havoc among the peoples and bring about warfare and strife and it is impossible to remove them without a language in common.
I am an Oriental and on this account I am shut out from your thoughts and you likewise from mine.  A mutual language will become the mightiest means of universal progress toward the union of the East and West.  It will make the earth one home and become the divine impulse for human advancement.  It will upraise the standard of oneness of the world of humanity and make the earth a universal commonwealth.  It will be the cause of love between the children of men and create good fellowship between the various creeds.
Praise be to God, that Dr Zamenhof has constructed the Esperanto language.  It has all the potential qualities of universal adoption.  All of us must be grateful and thankful to him for his noble effort for in this matter he has served his fellowmen well.  He has constructed a language which will bestow divine benefits on all peoples.  With untiring efforts and self-sacrifice on the part of its devotees it gives promise of universal acceptation.  Therefore everyone of us must study this language and make every effort to spread it so that each day it may receive a wider recognition, be accepted by all nations and governments of the world and become a part of the curriculum in all the public schools.  I hope that the business of the future conferences and congresses will be carried on in Esperanto.  In the future two languages will be taught in the schools, one the native tongue, the other the international auxiliary language.  Consider today how difficult is human communication.  One may study 50 languages and yet travel through a country and still be at a loss.  I, myself, know several of the Oriental languages, but know no Western tongue.  Had this universal language pervaded the globe, I should have studied it and you would have been directly informed of my thoughts and I of yours and a special friendship would have been established between us.
Please send some teachers to Persia, if you can, so that they may teach Esperanto to the young people.  I have written asking some of them to come here to study it.
I hope that it will be promulgated very rapidly-then the world of humanity will find eternal peace; all the nations will associate with one another like mothers and sisters, fathers and brothers, and each individual member of the body politic will be fully informed of the thoughts of all.
I am extremely grateful to you and thank you for these lofty aims, for you have gathered at this banquet to further this language.  Your hope is to render a mighty service to the world of humanity and for this great aim I congratulate you from the depths of my heart.


IV:2, 9 April 1913
page 37
Soul, mind and spirit
Talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 30 January 1913, at 30 rue St Didier, Paris.
From Persian notes; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
One of the ladies present has asked me to speak on the subject of soul, mind and spirit.  She desires an explanation of these terms.
The terminology of ancient philosophers differs from that of our time.  In later ages certain terms have developed through which we see these subjects in a different light.  According to some ancient philosophers, the words soul, mind and spirit imply the underlying principles of life, expressing the various phases of the one absolute reality.  They were different names for the operations of one essence.  For instance, we say a man sees, hears and speaks-seeing, hearing and speaking are the different performances of the same power which animates man.  Different schools of thought have given different names to the various operations of the one essence.  For instance, when some speak of the emotions of consciousness they call it soul; when they express the discovering power of man they call
page 38
it mind, and when they refer to the animating essence of the world of creation, they call it spirit.
The differentiation which we make of these subjects is as follows:  By soul we mean that power which is the mover of this physical body which is entirely under its control and lives in accordance with its dictates.  The soul that lives in the material world is dark for in the material world there is aggression, struggle, greed, vice and transgression.  If the soul remains in this station, and moves along these paths it will receive no uplift, but if it becomes the recipient of the world of mind, its darkness will be transformed into light; its tyranny into justice, its ignorance into wisdom and its aggression into loving kindness.  There will be no more struggle for existence and man will become free from egotism.  He will be released from the material world and become the embodiment of justice, the personification of the virtues.  He will become a sanctified soul and be the means of the illumination of the world of humanity and an honour to human kind.  He will confer life upon the children of men so that all nations will attain to the station of perfection.  To such a person we may apply the name of "a holy soul".
The soul in itself cannot unravel the mysteries; but the mind is superior to the soul.  The mind is a power whereby man can investigate the reality of every object.  It unfolds to his vision the secrets of existence and leads him on and on to the station of divine sublimity.  It frees man from the fetters of self and causes him to ascend to the pure heaven of sanctity.
The third power of man is the power of the Spirit.  It is an emanation from the Divine Bestower.  It is the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the radiation of the celestial world.  In short it is the essence of the Spirit of Faith of which His Holiness Christ speaks when He says, "Those that are born of the flesh are flesh and those that are born of the spirit are spirit."  The spirit is the axis around which the eternal life revolves.  It is conducive to everlasting glory; it is the cause of the exultation of the world of humanity.  Again His Holiness Christ says, "Whosoever has not received a portion of the spirit is as dead.  Let the dead bury their dead."  In another place Christ says, "You must be baptized with the spirit."  This Spirit is the life of the world of humanity; the cause of eternal illumination.  It inspires man to attain to the virtues and perfections of the divine world.
May each one of you become the recipient of the Spirit.  This is my hope.


IV:2, 9 April 1913
page 38
Individuality and personality
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 14 February 1913, at 30 rue St Didier, Paris.
From Persian notes; translated by Mírzá Abmad Sobráb.
Today one of those present asked a question on personality.  From what source does it come?  What are its attributes?  What are its characteristic features or aspects?
Personality is one of two kinds.  One is the natural or God-given personality which the Western thinkers call individuality.  Individuality is the inner aspect of man which is not subject to change.
The second is personality.  Personality is the acquired virtues and perfections, with which man is adorned.
When the individuality of man, i.e., his God-given natural virtues, is adorned with acquired virtues and perfections then we have character.  When the infinite effulgences of God are revealed in the individual, then divine perfections which are invisible in all creation will become manifest in him.
For instance, one man is the manifestor of knowledge, i.e., divine knowledge is revealed to him.  Another man is the dawning place of power, a third is wealthy, another is generous.  Again a person is faithful, and another with whom you come in touch, is merciful.  All these attributes are God-given and natural in man.
These are the manifestations of the unchangeable individuality.  All of them are praiseworthy, because they are divine in origin.  All these qualifications are created by God, they are loved by every one, for they are the significances of His names and attributes.  The rays of His names and attributes have illumined the very essence of these qualifications.
As regards the personality which is the result of acquired virtues, that is also good.  For instance, this mirror had once an individuality of rock.  The rock going through the processes of purification, has reached to its present status of transparency.  Now the rock in its original state was praiseworthy,
page 39
but having acquired the second state, which is personality, it has become a mirror.  In the beginning it was a piece of black stone, now it has become a pure looking-glass.
Therefore you can easily see that the personality or the acquired virtue has become the means of the appearance of greater perfections, which perfections are clearly visible in the mirror.
The rock was endowed by God with a distinct individuality.  It acquired personality through the process of education.  The individuality of all people is laudable, for everything God creates is based upon divine wisdom.  In the creation of God there is no defect.  However, personality has no element of permanence in it, it is a shifting, changeable quality in man which can be turned either way.
For instance, when man is the manifestor of virtues it strengthens the individuality, and suffers his hidden forces to come into active play.  But if he acquires defects the beauty and simplicity of the individuality will be lost, and its God-given qualities will be stifled in the foul atmosphere of these imperfections.  It is self-evidently manifest that every human being created by God is original; that is, those heavenly attributes which are the distinguishing features of the individuality are created by God and deposited in man.
But if later on the personality acquires sciences, he will become a wise man.  If he is engaged in praise-worthy deeds he will be appreciated.  If he strives in the study of knowledges he will become perfect.  If, on the contrary, he runs after blameworthy vices he will be adorned with exactly the same attributes.
For instance, God has created man to be just; if he does not practice justice, he has gone against the attributes of his individuality.  God has created man to be merciful, but he becomes a tyrant.  God has created man to be kind to all the children of men; on the contrary he is inimical and hateful.  God has created man to confer life, but he becomes conducive to the destruction of life.
All of these are the perversions of the characteristics of the individuality and they are blameworthy, and disliked by all.
Personality is obtained through the effort of man, and through training and education.  If a fruitless tree comes under the influence of a wise gardener, through the process of training it becomes fruitful.
If a piece of rock comes under the hand of a sculptor it will become a beautiful piece of statuary.  The ruined places are built up by captains of industry.  The ignorant children learn the secrets of phenomena under the tutorship of a wise teacher.  The crooked branch becomes straight through the influence of the gardener.
Consequently it is evident that we have two modes for the expression of life-Individuality and Personality.
The former is the handiwork of God and the latter that of man.  In short, the personality of some people is illumined, that of others is dark-the personality of some is the manifestation of divine justice, while that of others is the embodiment of infinite tyranny.  The personality of some is guidance, while that of others is error.  That which was hidden in the capability of these souls has been manifest.  For instance, when you sow a seed, that which is hidden in the reality of that seed will become revealed and unfolded-the trunk, the branches, the leaves and the blossoms and the fruits which are in the seed as potentialities.
When pupils are being trained under the tutorship of a teacher, education will bring out what is hidden in their beings.
The clouds pour down, the sun shines, and all that which was hidden in the bosom of the earth will come forth.
Therefore the personality of man is developed through education, while the individuality, which is divine and heavenly, is praise-worthy in origin.
God has created poison and has shown that it is harmful to man.  On the other hand sweet things are created by Him and are enjoyed by man.  Thus it is in the nature of man to be harmed by poison, and to find enjoyment in sweets; but he changes his nature to such an extent that he takes poison, such as opium and arsenic in the form of a drug, and he accustoms himself to it to such an extent that if he does not receive it he may die.
Therefore man is capable of subjecting [sic-subjugating] his individuality to such a degree that poison which was the means of death, becomes the means of life.  His nature becomes so degraded and his individuality so distorted that he will long for the poison if it is not given to him in time.
What is the cause of the change in the individuality?  It is the acquirement of evil habits.
God benignly endows man with an individuality which enjoys the sweet and shuns
page 40
the poison, but man through evil habits changes the creation of God, and transforms the divine illumination into satanic darkness.
So long as man is a captive of nature, submerged in the sea of materialism, pursuing the dictates of self and desire, he is vanquished and defeated.  This passionate ego takes the reins from his hands, and changes him into an animal.  He will fall so low that he will be unable to judge good from evil.  He will not be able to distinguish light from darkness, neither will he be able to behold the angelic attributes.
Therefore this acquired individuality which is the result of evil customs becomes the dominant note of his life.
I hope that all of you may be freed from these dangers, delivered from the world of nature, enter into the realm of light, and become divine, radiant, merciful, God-like and confirmed.


IV:2, 9 April 1913
page 40
The pathway of the Disciples of Christ
Talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 11 June 1912, at 309 West 78th Street, New York City.
Interpreted by Dr Amín U. Faríd.
[After instructions upon certain matters, 'Abdu'l-Bahá continued:]
The essence of the intention is that I wish you to pray for me and I will pray for you.  The pathway we shall walk together is the pathway of the Disciples of Christ.  After the departure of His Holiness to the Supreme Paradise, the disciples who had followed His teachings met together in consultation upon the summit of a mountain near Jaffa.  Such a consultation was never before held.  They said to each other, "His Holiness Jesus Christ has been crucified.  He offered His life in this way, gave up His rest and comfort, forfeited His happiness, renounced His possessions, family and life, and quaffed the chalice of martyrdom.  He educated us in order that we might arise after Him in His Cause.  He sacrificed His life that the oil in the lamps of our souls might become ignited and His Light shine forth from them.  He suffered on the cross that we may irrigate the tree of His planting.  He consented to a cruel death in order that the seed of His sowing might be cultivated and preserved by us.  Now must we be loyal to His Holiness.  If we wish to be loyal we must arise to carry out the duties of loyalty.  Otherwise each of us will continue to seek after his own livelihood, rest and comfort; each, like other people, find repose, enjoy a family, have a household, provide food and strive to gain glory and power.  Shall we do this?"  All said, "No!  We must be loyal and faithful to His Holiness Jesus Christ.  Therefore with our worldly attachments we cannot attend to His service in a true spirit of severance.  We must either be occupied with ourselves or engaged in His service.  This Cause is a very great Cause; a Cause that is weighty and important, not light and trivial; a Cause that is not easy to carry and serve.  First, to be severed and free from all other occupation we must give up and relinquish our family ties and that which pertains thereto.  Because the management of a household and family is a hindrance to service.  God has not created two hearts for man, one for living in the world and one for service in His Cause.  Therefore either must we be occupied with our own service and affairs or with service to Christ.  Is not this the ultimate arrangement?  Yes! it is the ultimate arrangement!  He who is tied to a family, let him then arrange to leave it; he who is not should not take a wife and the duties of a family; then will he be free, severed and without burden or hindrance in the service of God.  Is this right?  Is this the ultimate arrangement?  Are we united upon this?  Yes!  Second, in the pathway of Christ there is strife, persecution, blame, imprisonment, banishment, suffering and many other burdens which we must accept.  Have we accepted them?  Yes! we have assuredly!  Third, we must go among the peoples of the world, proclaiming the glad-tidings of the Kingdom of God, spreading the fragrances of Christ, summoning them to the Sun of Reality in order that this dark world shall become illumined.  Is this the ultimate arrangement?  Yes!"
Then they took an oath and covenant among themselves, embraced each other and descended from the mountain, some going to the Eastward, some to the West, North and South.  So they were scattered.  Some became traceless, as it is not known where they travelled or where they died.  It is said some died in India.
The reality of the condition is this:  We must be loyal to the Threshold of the Blessed Beauty and be willing to give our lives for
page 41
Him.  We must sacrifice our comfort for Him; sacrifice all our conditions in the pathway of His service.  If we do this, our service will be productive of great results.  Otherwise God will raise up souls to do this work in our stead.  Our purpose is that we shall arise in His Cause-not fettered by world conditions, not burdened by weight of material responsibilities.  We must draw our thread from one direction whether it come or not.  There are many threads; the right one will come to us.  [Refers to seeking the right thread by which to unravel a skein.]
Now therefore I will pray for you and you must pray for me, "O Bahá'u'lláh!  This is 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  Confirm 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Thy Threshold!  Strengthen him in loyalty to Thee!  Make him self-sacrificing!  Make him homeless, and without rest!  Fill his heart with Thy love, so he will forget all else save Thee,-seeking no other comfort, grace, health or life, and sacrificing all for Thee!"
Pray in this manner for me and I will pray so for you.
Admonish the Friends so they will not backbite and criticize, voicing the mistakes and sins of others.  Have a sin-covering eye.  As soon as you see a trace of the Love of Bahá'u'lláh in a soul, revere that soul under all conditions.


IV:3, 28 April 1913
page 51
'Abdu'l-Bahá answers many questions asked by theologians of Paris
Sunday Evening, 17 February 1913-Pasteur Monnier's Theological Seminary, Paris.
From Persian notes; translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
[The audience was composed of professors, clergy and theological students]
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  How are you?
Pasteur Monnier:  We are all feeling well and are exceedingly pleased to have you bless our Seminary.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  I am likewise most happy to find myself amongst you, and associate with you.
Monnier:  We are very happy to find amongst us a person who has come on the part of God, and has brought to us a divine message.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  A person endowed with the power of hearing shall hear the mysteries of God from all things, and all creation will convey to him the divine message.
Monnier:  If you permit us, we would like to ask a question.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Very well.
Monnier:  As we are students of theology, and are in the rank of clergy, we would like to know who was Christ, and what was He?  What is your belief about Him?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Our belief in regard to Christ is exactly what is recorded in the New Testament; however we elucidate this matter, and do not speak literally or in a manner based merely on the foundation of blind belief.  For instance, it is recorded in the Gospel of St John, that in the beginning there was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
Now the majority of Christians accept this principle as a matter of belief, but we give an explanation and exposition which is accepted by reason, and in such a way that no one may find occasion to reject it.
The Christians have made this statement the foundation of the Trinity-but philosophers deny it as mere superstition, stating that the Trinity as regards the identity of the Divinity is impossible; and in turn the Christians do not give a satisfactory explanation and interpretation to be accepted by philosophers.
As the former base their whole exposition of this subject upon the authority of the Holy Scriptures, the latter do not accept it, saying, "Is it possible to have three in one, and one in three?"
We explain this subject as follows:  The eternality of the Word is not an eternality of time, for if this were an eternality of time, the Word would have been accidental, and not eternal.  By the Word we mean that this creation with its infinite forms is like unto letters, and the individual members of humanity are likewise like unto letters.
A letter individually has no meaning, no independent significance, but the station of Christ is the station of the Word.  Complete and independent significance is implied in a word.  That is why we say Christ is the Word.  By complete significance we mean that the universal bestowals of the perfection of Divinity are manifest in Christ.
It is obvious that the perfections of other souls are particular, or only a part, but the perfections of the Christ are universal or the whole.  The reality of Christ is the collective centre of all the independent virtues and infinite significances.
For instance, this lamp sheds light, the moon also illumines the night with its silvery beams, but their light is not in their essence, they receive their light from another source; but His Holiness the Christ is like unto the sun, His light issued forth from His own identity.  He has not received it through another person, therefore we give Him the comprehensive title of the Word.
page 52
By this we mean the all-comprehending Reality, and the depository of the infinite divine virtues.
This Word has an (honorary) beginning and not a beginning of time.  For instance, we say this person has precedence over all.  This precedence comes to him through the station and honour which he has now in life, but it is not a precedence of time.
In reality the Word has neither a beginning nor ending.  It means those perfections which appeared in Christ and not His physical body.  Those perfections were from the part of God.
It is similar to the rays of the sun which are reflected in a clear mirror.  The rays, the light and the heat of the sun are its perfections which have become manifest in the mirror.
The perfections of Christ were the splendour and bounty of God.  It is evident that these qualities were ever with God, even at this time they are with Him, they are inseparable from Him, because divinity is not subject to division.  Division is a sign of imperfection, and as God is the Perfect One He cannot be divided.
It is clear that the perfections of the Divinity are co-equal and co-existent with the Essence.  In that station there is absolute Unity.  This in brief is the exposition of the Station of Christ.
Monnier:  What is the similarity between the Cause of Christ and that of Bahá'u'lláh?  And what relation do they hold towards each other?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The foundation of the religion of God is one.  The same basis which was laid by Christ and later on was forgotten, has been renewed by His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.
As we said, the object of divine religion is one-each religion is divided into two parts.  The first part is essential, and it belongs to the world of morality.  It is the exposition of significances and realities.  It is the expression of the love of God, the knowledge of God.  This is one in all the religions, unchangeable and immutable, because it is the reality, and the reality is immutable and unchangeable.
The second part is non-essential.  It belongs to practical life, to transactions and business.  This changes according to the requirements of the time in which the Prophet lives.
For example, during the days of His Holiness Moses, the foundation and the origin of the religion of God spelled morality, and that was not changed in the Christian dispensation, but certain differences crept in through the change of the second part of the religion.  For during the Mosaic period the hand of a person was cut off because he had committed a small theft; there was the law of an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.  This was according to the spirit of the age, but as these laws were impracticable at the time of Christ, they were abrogated.
Likewise divorce:  It had become so universal and so easily put into practice, that the laws of marriage were too easily broken, therefore His Holiness Christ forbade it.
According to the exigencies of the time, His Holiness Moses revealed ten laws for capital punishment.  It was impossible at that time to protect the body politic and preserve social security without these severe measures.  For the children of Israel lived in the wilderness of Tur,1 they could not protect their rights and establish safety without these severe measures.
As they were too antiquated in the time of Christ, they were abolished.  The difference in the second part of religion is unimportant, because it belongs to the customs of life only, but the foundation of the religion of God is one.  Therefore His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has renewed that foundation.
The Cause of Christ was wholly spiritual.  He did not change anything save the Sabbath and the law of divorce.  All the sayings of Christ deal with the knowledge of God, with the oneness of the world of humanity, the moral relations between the hearts, [and] spiritual susceptibilities.
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh created these merciful sentiments in the most complete form and deposited them in the hearts of men.  This is in keeping with the teachings of Christ, because it is the reality and the reality does not change.
Is it possible to say that divine unity is divisible, or the knowledge of God, the oneness of the world of humanity, universal love, and the solidarity of the human race, are ever subject to transformation?
No, I declare by God they are immutable, for they are the reality.
Monnier:  What is the relation of Christ and Bahá'u'lláh with God?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  His Holiness Christ said "The Father is in me"-this we must understand through logical and scientific evidences, for if we do
page 53
not conform religious principles and science and reason, they do not inspire the heart with confidence and assurance.
It is said that once John of Chrysostum was walking along the sea-shore and was thinking over the question of the Trinity, the possibility of three becoming one, and one three, trying to reconcile this with reason.
He was absorbed in this subject, when suddenly his attention was attracted by a boy sitting on the shore and putting water in a cup.
Approaching him, he asked, "My child, what art thou doing?"  "I am trying to put the sea in this cup," he answered.  "How foolish art thou," John replied, "in trying to do the impossible."  The child rejoined, "Thy work is stranger than mine, for thou art labouring to bring within the grasp of human intellect the conception of the Trinity."
Then John thought to himself that to understand this matter logically is beyond the comprehension of the human mind.
But we stated that every religious question must be tested by the criteria of science and reason, otherwise how can one accept it?  If I propound a question which is rejected by the deduction of reason, it is not worthy of your acceptance.
Therefore let us investigate independently the reality of this matter and let us always be guided in our exposition by the light of reason and science.
What is the meaning of the Father and the Son?  We say that this Fatherhood and Son-ship are allegorical, and symbolical.  The Messianic Reality is like unto a mirror through which the Sun of Divinity has become resplendent.  If this mirror states "The Light is in me" it is sincere in its claim; therefore Jesus was truthful when He said "The Father is in me."
When we look at the question from the above standpoint we see that the principle of the Trinity is explained.  The sun which is in the sky, and the sun in the mirror are one, are they not?  We do not believe that there are two suns, and yet we see that there are two suns.
We must investigate the reality, and not follow the imitation, for the Jews were expecting the coming of the Messiah, lamenting day and night-saying:  "O God send to us our Deliverer!"  But as they walked in the path of dogmas, rather than reality, when the Messiah appeared they denied Him.  If they had been the investigators of reality, they would not have crucified, but have worshipped Him.
Monnier:  Is the unification of religion possible?  If so, when and how and through what channel will it be realized?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  When the devotees of religion cast away their dogmas and ritualism then the unification of religion will be in sight, and the realities of the Holy Books will become unveiled.  In these days misunderstandings hold the upper hand.  When these misunderstandings and blind imitations are relinquished then the Sun of Unity or religions shall dawn.
When I was in San Francisco I was invited to speak in a Jewish synagogue; there were nearly 2,000 Jews present in the Temple.  I said, I desire to propound before you a question, but I request you to listen to it carefully, till I finish, and then if you have any objections, state them:
__________
It is about 2,000 years that between you and the Christians there has been friction and opposition, but when we investigate the reality we find that such a state of affairs should not exist.  Owing to the misunderstandings which today have blinded the eyes and exist among you and the Christians, you conceive that His Holiness the Christ was the enemy of Moses, the destroyer of the laws of the Pentateuch, the abrogator of the commandments of the Bible.
Let us now search after the truth, and discover whether this supposition on your part corresponds with fact or not.
When we investigate the reality we observe that Christ appeared amongst you at a time when according to your own historians the laws of the Torah were forgotten, the foundation of religion and faith was shaken.  Nebuchadnezzar had come, burning the context of the whole Bible, and taking into captivity many Jewish tribes.  For the second time Alexander the Great had come.  For the third time Titus, the Roman general, devastated the land, killed the Jews, pillaged their property, and imprisoned their children.
At such a time, under such gloomy conditions, His Holiness the Christ appeared.  The first thing He said was:  "The Torah is the Divine Book, Moses is the Man of God, Aaron, Solomon, Isaiah, Zechariah, and all the Jewish prophets are valid and true."  Throughout all regions He spread the Bible.
For 1,500 years the Bible was not sent out of Palestine, but Christ promulgated it in all countries.  Were it not for Christ the name of Moses and His Book would not have
page 54
reached America.  During 1,500 years the Torah was only once translated, but Christ was the cause of its being translated into 600 languages.  Now be just, was Christ the friend or the enemy of Moses?
You say that He abrogated the Torah, but I say he promulgated the Torah, the Ten Commandments and all the questions which belong to its moral world.  But He changed the following, that for a small theft one cannot cut off the hand.  If a person blind another he must not be blinded, or if he breaks another's teeth, his teeth should not be broken.
Is it possible nowadays that for $1,000,000 the hand of the culprit be cut off with the law?  Or to establish the archaic laws of an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth?
Therefore Christ changed only that part of the Mosaic religion which was not in accord with the spirit of His time.  He did not desire to abolish the Torah.
You, yourselves, are of the opinion in this day that these laws are not timely but are out of date and impracticable.
Is it not true that the Christians believe that Moses was the Prophet of God, and all the Jewish seers were the Messengers of God, and the Bible is the Book of God?  Has this belief of theirs harmed their religion?  They answered "no".  Then you may just say from your heart that Christ is the Word of God, then all these differences will end.  The persecutions of the last 2,000 years have been on account of this fact, that you were not willing to proclaim these two words.
But I hope it is proven to you that Moses had no better friend that His Holiness Christ.
__________
In short, misunderstanding between the religions is conducive to differences.  When these misunderstandings and blind imitations are forgotten then the unification of the religions will become a reality.
Today the enmity and rivalry existing between the religions are over mere words.
It is an established fact that the followers of all the religions believe in a Reality, the benefits of which are universal; which Reality is a medium between God and man.  The Jews call that Reality Moses, the Christians Christ, the Muslim Muhammad, the Buddhists Buddha, and the Zoroastrians Zoroaster.
Now mark well that none of these religionists have ever seen the Founders, they have only heard His name.  If they overlooked these names they would realize that they all believed in a perfect Reality which is an intermediary between the Almighty and His creatures.
Their dissension is over a word, otherwise they all share in common the belief of the Mediatorship between the Creator and the creature.
If you speak to a Jew about the medium or channel between God and man, without referring to any particular name or trying to make him believe in any special person, he would say-"Yes, this is right, but I say the name of this medium is Moses."
If you go on giving the exposition of this divine philosophy to the followers of each religion they will all agree with you in the abstract, but they will stick to the names of their own prophets, and arise in contention and strife over these names.  But in reality and in significance they are all believers and agreed.  The Jew believes in Christ, but he knows nothing about it, he is quibbling over the mere word.
In short there have been wars and rumours of war amongst the people of the world for many thousand years; much innocent blood has been shed, many kingdoms and empires have been laid waste.
Now it is enough!  Religion must be the means of good fellowship and love.  It must upraise the standard of harmony and solidarity.  If religion is conducive to hatred and enmity, irreligion is better, because such pseudo-religion gives no result, nay rather its existence is harmful to the welfare of the body-politic.
God has founded the religions so that they might be the bond of amity and mutual association between the people.
His Holiness Christ did not sacrifice His own life so that the people might believe that He is the Word of God; nay rather He gave up His life so that He might bestow Eternal Life to the world of humanity.  That is why He said, "The Son of Man is come to give life to the world."
Later on this subject was forgotten by the people, certain blind imitations crept in, and the words Father, Son and Holy Spirit became current.
The original foundation was lost sight of.  Christ said, "If someone strikes your right cheek, turn to him the left."  Is there any relation between this commandment and the bloody events taking place in the Balkans?  No!
The religious differences between the Catholics and Protestants have caused in the past
page 55
the destruction of 900,000 lives.  No doubt you are aware of this fact.  What relation have these events with the statement of Christ when He addressed Peter:  "Put thy sword into the scabbard"?  Therefore when we hold fast to the foundations of the religions of God, all these differences are dispelled.
Monnier:  Is your aim to found a new religion?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Our aim is to free the foundations of the religion of God from dogmas, for the Sun of Reality is prevented from shining forth by black impenetrable clouds.  We desire to dispel these clouds, so that the regions of the world may be flooded and illumined with its luminous rays, so that these foul clouds may never return.  The rays of the Sun of Reality may encircle all countries, for this Sun has no beginning and no ending.
('Abdu'l-Bahá arose.)
Monnier:  Our hope is likewise the spread of such ideals of unity, peace, and concord.  We hope to be your co-workers, and co-labourers in this field.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  This is likewise my hope, that the utmost unity may be established between us, such a unity which is not ended by separation.
('Abdu'l-Bahá went into the library, where several clergy and professors came to him to be presented.  One of them said):
I desire to express our deepest gratitude and pleasure on the part of those present.  In reality what you said was in keeping with facts.  Our aim is likewise the establishment of universal peace and brotherhood.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Praise be to God that our aims and hopes are one, but we must strive to make this purpose realized.
A Professor:  The International Congress of Religions will be opened in Paris during the month of July.  We hope that you will be able to accept the invitation to take part in the proceedings of that Congress.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  It is nearly two years that I have been out of Haifa.  I must return.  After 40 years of confinement and two years of continual travelling, all my powers are exhausted.  I can hardly speak.
Professor:  The invitation of the Congress will be sent to you, and we hope you will write a message that may be read during one of the sessions.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Very well.


IV:3, 28 April 1913
page 56
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
To his honour Mr Charles Mason Remey, Washington, D.C.
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou illumined youth and my spiritual beloved!
Thy letter was received and its perusal imparted happiness impossible to describe.  It was an indication of the loftiness of thy nature, the strength of thy effort and the purity of thy intentions.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's happiness is caused by such matters.  If the material luxuries of the whole earth were available to 'Abdu'l-Bahá He would not think for one moment that there is such a thing as comfort and luxury in the world.  But when a soul-perfuming fragrance wafts from the rose-garden of the hearts of the friends to the nostrils of 'Abdu'l-Bahá such joy is realized that involuntarily I render thanksgiving unto the Blessed Perfection Who has trained such servants.
In brief, your letter imparted to me the utmost happiness.  This thought of yours is very appropriate.1  I hope that a new quickening may be produced in the hearts of the believers, and great firmness and steadfastness became manifest, that this may lead to the guidance of others.
Therefore, with a divine power, a heavenly resolution and purpose, an eloquent tongue and a heart overflowing with the Love of God, take in thy hands the Tablets and travel throughout the cities, even as far as Honolulu in Hawaii.  Travel thou in all the American cities.  Call every one to Firmness in the Covenant!  Exhilarate every one with the Spiritual Wine of the Covenant!  And guide every one to the diffusion of the Fragrance of GOD!  Raise the cry of "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!"2 and call the name of "Yá 'Alíyyu'l-A'lá!"3 ("O Thou the Exalted, the Most Exalted!").
Awaken the friends, for ere long a test shall come.  Perchance some persons outwardly firm and inwardly wavering shall come to those parts in order to weaken the faith of the friends in the Covenant of God.  Let them be awake!  Let them be mindful!  As soon as they see a trace of violation of the Covenant, they must hold aloof from the violator.  Day and night let them strive so that the Lights of the Kingdom of Abhá may encircle the globe and the darkness of error may entirely be dispelled. ...
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:4, 17 May 1913
page 67
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Stuttgart
From notes in German sent by Margarethe Doering and M. Schweizer, Stuttgart.
Translated into English by Mr Charles Ioas, Chicago.
'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived at Stuttgart, Germany, in the evening of 1 April 1913.  The friends called the following day at the hotel, or met him in the afternoon at the home of Mr and Mrs Herrigel, where great numbers of people were present.  All were radiant and happy, and rejoiced in his presence.  When he entered he bowed to all sides and then sitting down asked, "How are you all?" after which he spoke the following words, translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb an Herrn Herrigel, and taken stenographically by M. Schweizer:
"Praise be to God! that I have come to Stuttgart, that I could meet with you.  Praise be to God! because your faces are radiant with the light of the Glory of God; your hearts are attracted to the Kingdom of Abhá.  Thank God that you have heard the call of God.  You are living in the day of the Lord.  You are living in the days of the radiances of the Sun of Reality.  The rays of this Sun have poured into your hearts and souls.  Your hearts are illuminated, your inner vision clear.  Your spirit rejoiced in the glad tidings of the Kingdom of God.  Thank God that you are the elect of God.  He has elected you because of His own love.  The mercies of God have surrounded you.  You must live in accordance with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh Be loving to all mankind.  Consort with all religions in amity and fragrance.  You must be the cause of the education of the world of humanity.  At present the world is still very dark.  From one side there threatens the darkness of ignorance; from another side black enmity is visible; from the other side we hear of war and rumours of war.  We must, like a candle, shine with the light of Bahá'u'lláh in order that through your efforts this darkness may be dispelled.  The light of the love of God can illumine the East and the West.  It can change hatred and enmity into love and friendship.  The clouds which veil the rays of the Sun of Reality must be dispelled and made to disappear.  The world must be rejuvenated.  Eternal life must be made possible.  The rays of the Kingdom must shine forth.  The breath of the Holy Spirit can quicken the dead.  I shall always pray for you and I shall supplicate for divine confirmations for each one of you, in order that ye may become more enkindled day by day, more attracted, so that each one of you will become a herald of the Kingdom.  This is the eternal glory.  This is the eternal life.  This is the entrance into the Kingdom of God, the dominion which will last forever.
"I am very glad to be here.  It is my hope that through the bounty of God you may become givers of life at this time.  May God bless you all!  May the blessings pour down upon you!"
After these words 'Abdu'l-Bahá went into another room, saying that all who had not met him could come to him.  To those present he made a short talk, after which he arose and shook hands with all.
In the evening of 3 April, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed a large public meeting in the upper hall of the City Museum.  When he entered all arose.  Happiness shone on all faces.  After a short welcome 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke the following, which was translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb and Mr Eckstein, and taken stenographically by F. R. and M. Schweizer:
"I came from a distant land.  I have travelled twenty thousand miles until I came to you in Stuttgart.  Forty years I was a prisoner.  I was young when I was put into prison and my hair was white when the prison doors opened.  After all these long years of the sufferings of prison life I willingly took upon myself all the hardships of a long journey.  Now I am here in order to be united with you, in order to
page 68
meet you.  My purpose is that perchance you may illumine the world of humanity; that all men may unite in perfect love and friendship; that religious prejudices, national prejudices, race distinctions, all may be completely abandoned.  The religions of today consist of dogmas.  Because these dogmas differ from each other, discord and even hatred is manifest.  Religion must be the basis of all good fellowship.  Think of the turmoil that today exists in the Balkans; how much blood is shed; how many thousands of mothers have lost their sons, how many children have become orphans, and how many buildings, villages, and cities have been destroyed!  The Balkan states have become a volcano.  All this ruin originates from the prejudices created by the different dogmas, called forth by superstitions and race prejudices.
"The essence of the religion of God is love, and the Holy Books bear testimony to that, for the essence of the religion of God is the light of the world of humanity; but mankind today has forgotten what constitutes true religion.  Each nation and each people today hold to some definite dogma.
"Everything in the world is subject to change.  But this transmutation and change are requirements of life.  See, for instance, these flowers before us.  They come forth from a seed.  They grow to perfection, but when they have reached the state of perfection they go back again.  This is the invariable law of creation.  Likewise man develops until he has grown to maturity.  When he reaches beyond the state of maturity he begins to decline.  All religions of God are subject to this same law.  They are founded in order to blossom out and develop and fulfil their mission.  They reach their zenith and then decline and come to an end.  So a few thousand years ago came Moses.  He promulgated the ten commandments.  Later these laws were changed, and this change was so complete that of the original nothing more was visible.  Then God sent the Roman Empire to destroy the Holy Land, because the Jews had forgotten the law of God.  They had in the end only a bundle of superstitions.  When this religion had sunk to such a depth, God sent his Holiness Jesus Christ.  His Holiness Christ appeared as the Light of the Sun, and He founded anew the religion of God.  He revivified the light which had been given by Moses and fulfilled that law.
"This should show you that religion is subject to change.  So, also, religion is full of superstition.  There is today nothing more than tradition to feed upon.  Therefore our souls must strive day and night in order that the foundations of divine religion may again be newly revivified.  These traditions and these dogmas are like the husks surrounding the kernel.  We must release the kernel from the husk.  The world of humanity is in the dark.  Our aim is to illumine mankind.  It is natural that after the darkness of every night the brilliant day will come.  It is our hope that this darkness may be dispelled and that the rays of the Sun of Reality will shine again.  We are confident that the darkness will again be followed by the brightness of the day.  It is our hope that after the cold winter a new spring will come, giving new life to nature, so that the trees of humanity will again sprout and become verdant in the gardens, so that they may bring forth leaves and blossoms and fruit.  Thanks be to God, the illumined century has dawned.  Thank God that this spiritual spring has come.  Thanks be to God, that the reality of all things has been revealed.  This century is the century of light.  This period is the period of science.  This cycle is the cycle of reality.  This age is the age of progress and freedom of thought.  This day is the greatest day of the Lord.  This time is the time of eternal life.  This age is the age of the breath of the Holy Spirit.  This time is the time in which all is resurrected into new life.  Therefore, I desire that all may be united in harmony.  Strive and work so that the standard of the world of human Oneness may be raised among men, so that the lights of universal peace may shine and the East and the West embrace, and the material world become a mirror of the Kingdom of God, that eternal light may shine forth and that the day break which will not be followed by the night.
In this age every face must turn to God, so that spiritual enlightenment will go hand in hand with material education.  Material education alone cannot make the world happy.  Spiritual civilization must assist the material civilization.  The men of science and philosophy are the founders of the material education, but His Holiness Christ was the founder of the spiritual, divine civilization.  Material civilization serves the world of men, but the spiritual civilization founds the world of morals.  These two kinds of civilization must go hand in hand.  The material civilization is like the lamp, but the spiritual civilization is like the light in the lamp.  This lamp without the light is a useless thing.  Therefore, in our day philoso-
page 69
phy and science must go hand in hand with the spiritual civilization.  The material civilization is like the body; the spiritual civilization is like the spirit which is the life to the body.  So long as the spirit gives life to the body, we behold a living thing, but a body without spirit is dead.  It is my desire that ye all may reach the state of spiritual civilization.  Like as ye have made great progress in material science, so may ye also progress in the spiritual world.  Then the light of the Kingdom of God will shine through all the world.  May the Sun of Reality illumine the East and the West."
Many meetings were held on 5 April.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was the guest of the Esperanto Association.  The president, Professor Christaller, welcomed him in appropriate words, in reply to which 'Abdu'l-Bahá then addressed the gathering.
On Sunday, 6 April, 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed a large gathering at the Hotel Marquardt.  In the afternoon the friends met in the garden of Consul Schwarz, where 'Abdu'l-Bahá consented to be photographed with those present.  He arranged the group himself.  Then he had flowers distributed in order that each might have one.  When he went into the automobile of Consul Schwarz, he was surrounded by the friends.  The children came to him and presented flowers.  It was a beautiful picture, with the children around the car.
In the evening a large meeting was held in the hall of the Upper Museum.  Miss A. S. Knobloch said a prayer, Miss Staebler sang and then Consul Schwarz introduced 'Abdu'l-Bahá in an eloquent speech, which we hope to have translated in the near future.  'Abdu'l-Bahá then addressed those present.  When he had concluded he passed through the hall and shook hands with each one.  From the hall 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the home of Miss Doering.
On the 7th he visited the springs at Mergentheim with Consul Schwarz, and on the 8th departed for Budapest.


IV:4, 17 May 1913
page 70
Meeting the capacity of the seeker
Louise Dixon Boyle
'Abdu'l-Bahá has repeatedly referred to the various human types as differing "like flowers in the rose-garden of God".  And in this day of unity and universal realization, we see clearly the necessity of recognizing the "fragrance" of all types and of according to each his opportunity of "diffusion" or expression.
In giving the world this knowledge of the Day of God, no duty impresses itself so persistently upon the Bahá'í as the necessity to meet the capacity of the seeker, and to realize among human beings a marked dissimilarity in approaching the teachings.
It will be only in the perspective of history that the full extent of religious decadence during the past few centuries will be realized.  Around the significance of divinity there has accumulated a false atmosphere, due to our human association of it with the tangible.  And it is inevitable, in the dawn of a new spiritual age, that many souls-possibly destined for a particular activity in it-should experience a reaction in turning from their old conceptions.  It is this reaction, perhaps, rather than an essential incapacity or antagonism, which withholds many from a full acceptance of the Bahá'í teachings.  Such souls represent so large a proportion of the thinking people in the world today that it is impossible to confuse their spirit with that of the anti-Christ; although, undoubtedly, many of them, in searching hither and thither for truth, will permit the brief span of their lives to pass unsatisfied.
To assist all earnest inquirers to assimilate the teachings is the important privilege of Bahá'ís today.  Surely it must be such as remain in the restricted environment of dogma and self who represent the element of opposition, rather than they who have felt the new vibrations afar off and cast away tradition in an effort to approach them.
It was with particular reference to questions asked by this type of inquirer, after the receipt of recent cablegrams from 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that the following notes were submitted to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  In returning them with interpolations he has "commanded"1 that they be printed in the Star of the West.
After the departure of the Báb the friends of God were in a state of utter confusion and bewilderment.  "A few who claimed to be the leaders of this scattered community, fearing the loss of their lives, were hiding in remote and inaccessible villages, not daring to associate publicly with the people.  The believers of God were like sheep without a shepherd; not one knew his duty."  It was at such a time as this, in the extreme necessity for guidance and authority, that Bahá'u'lláh came forth and declared Himself to be the Promised One.  The perfect meeting of the demand with the supply, the need with its fulfilment, is one of the fundamental laws of God.
Now in our day 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said:
"The Cause has become very great.  Many souls are entering it-souls with different mentalities and range of understanding.  Complex difficulties constantly rise before us.  The administration of the Cause has become very difficult.  Conflicting thoughts and theories attack the Cause from every side.  Now consider to what extent the believers of God must become firm and soul-sacrificing.  Every one must become the essence of essences; each one must become a brilliant lamp.  People all around the world are entering the Cause; people of various tribes and nations and religions and sects.  It is most difficult to administer to such heterogeneous elements.  Wisdom and divine insight are necessary.  Firmness and steadfastness are needed at such a crucial period of the Cause."
He has said repeatedly:
"Today the most important affair is firmness in the Covenant because firmness in the Covenant wards off differences."
The finger of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, like that of a great physician, is upon the pulse of all the spiritual conditions forming the Kingdom of God on earth.  He knows far in advance of any outward demonstration just what error will manifest itself as a menace to the Cause and a test to the believers.  He knows our hearts better than we know them ourselves because His insight is unerring in the spiritual realm.  We live in the world and accept the guidance of God to but a feeble and limited degree.  The heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá has always been turned to God and thus he has been the recipient of the holy confirmations since childhood.  We know how these holy ones possess
page 71
in its fullness in this day that "universal divine mind" whose power is "conscious, not acquired".
Man's knowledge of God and His manifestation in human form is the most profound of subjects.  We are capable of considering it only through the assistance of these Holy Educators, who have given the world all its ideals, all its spiritual vocabulary.
So during his visit to America, in the full knowledge of conditions and with the utmost wisdom and insight, 'Abdu'l-Bahá referred us to the proofs of his identity as the appointed Centre of the Covenant and the Greatest Branch, as a protection to us and to the Cause,-not in revocation of his standard of servitude so gloriously upraised in the world-in confirmation, rather than revocation of that most precious ensign of the Kingdom!
Since the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in our midst people are everywhere attracted to the teachings.  It is most important that we should not make of this matter a dogma to offend.  The self or ego is still so prominent in the human consciousness that the first inquiry of the groping soul for light is, "What does your leader claim for himself?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá assumed the mantle of servitude to answer this very question.  He stands in the midst of life today as an example, an embodiment of an ideal-the relinquishment of self.  For us, his chosen friends, not to contribute to that ideal is to retard human progress.
"We must first teach the people about the Lord of the Covenant, who is His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  When they become believers in the Lord of the Covenant, then we must explain to them the Centre of the Covenant."  We must say:  He claims to be the Servant of God; he is the Centre of God's Covenant with man in this day.  And as the spiritual perception of the inquirer expands in contact with the teachings the great station of 'Abdu'l-Bahá will unfold to him.
"In giving the teachings we must not mention the violators of the Covenant and thus render their acceptance difficult."  In sharing this foreknowledge with the friends, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has made us partners, as it were, with himself, has assumed that we are superior to evil suggestion, and that we will know how to use this knowledge most judiciously to protect the Cause.
Let us pray that we may so fully accept the Divine Guidance in every act of life that in the moment of test and difficulty we may stand as pillars of wisdom and strength in the Cause of God, firm in the Centre of the Covenant, and, like 'Abdu'l-Bahá himself, manifest toward all mankind the utmost tenderness, for only in this way may we lead them into the Kingdom.


IV:4, 17 May 1913
page 71
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the friends in the Orient
O Friends of God!  O spiritual companions!
The Lord of the peoples of the world declares in the beneficent Qur'án:  "And there is for you in the Prophet of God a good example":  That is to say, to follow His Holiness is a good example and to imitate that Real Leader is the means of acquiring success in both of the worlds.  The followers of the Prophet were commanded to follow Him in all affairs and manners, and when some individuals, having recognized this safe path as the Straight Road, travelled therein, they became Kings in the Land of the Righteous and the Kingdom of the Elect.  And those souls who tried to acquire comfort with ease, deprived themselves of all bounties and perished in the lowest ditch of despair.  Their days came to an end and their happiness terminated.  Their bright morn became dark, and their transparent cup became full of dregs and rust.  Their uprising star descended, and their bright luminary set.
But those pure souls who followed (in the footsteps of the Prophet) shone in the Highest Horizon as the Stars of Guidance and arose from the Dawning-place of hopes with matchless brilliancy.  They sat on the Throne of the Kingdom of Eternity and rested on the couch of Divine Success.  Their traces are clear and their lights brilliant; their star is luminous and their attendants are the armies of angels of the Heavens of Immortality.  Their palace is firm and their edifice is strong.  Their light is illumining the world and their heat is confirming the world.
Now judge for yourselves:  Those souls who followed in the wake of that Manifest Light acquired such bounties and stations!  If we now follow in the footsteps of the Most Glorious Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) and the most Exalted Majesty (the Báb)-may my
page 74
life be a sacrifice for those who suffered martyrdom in their path-what would be the result?
His Exalted Majesty (the Báb), from the beginning of the arising of His Beauty to the day of the Greatest Martyrdom, spent days and nights under severest trials, in the Path of God; He made His breast a target for thousands of arrows of calamities, and with a breast pierced and torn, hastened to the Most Glorious Kingdom.
The Eternal Beauty-the Greatest Name (Bahá'u'lláh)-tasted of the poison of every calamity, drank of the cup brimful of all kinds of trials, made His breast the target for every arrow, made His neck indebted to every sword.  He was incarcerated in a prison and was bound in merciless chains.  He was exposed to the derision of the crowds of enemies and became a butt for the stones of miscreants.  He was subjected to chains and collars, and was tightly bound with ropes and fetters.  He was exiled from His native land and was carried to the land of Bulgars1 and Serbs.  In the Most Great Prison ('Akká) He suffered inexorable calamities and His blessed days ended in this cruel prison and dark dungeon, while a prisoner of oppression and injustice, and He ascended to His Kingdom.
Now, O faithful friends and companions of that Bright Countenance!  Is it becoming that we should sit idle, even for one moment, practice delay, and seek ease and comfort, so that we be exposed to temptation and indolence, be occupied with our own thoughts and lose our hearts to strangers and kindred?  Nay, by God, we ought not to rest for one moment day nor night; we ought not to pollute our pure hearts with the attachment to this world; we must prepare Divine Assemblies, establish Feasts of Love, sing the melody of the Most Glorious Kingdom, accompanied with stringed instruments and with drums and flutes; hasten, dancing and laughing with joy, to the altar of martyrdom, and offer body and soul, head and trunk, as a sacrifice!
O friends, be loyal!
O beloved ones, be firm and steadfast!
O imploring ones, trust in God and rely upon Him!
O humble ones, be attached to God and cling to Him!
Let us encourage each other and set all in motion.  Let us strive to diffuse the Fragrance of God and engage ourselves in exalting the Word of God!
Let us ever be alert through the influence of the gentle breeze wafted from the Garden of Favour, and enjoy the Sweet Fragrance of the Garden of Unity!
Let us put enthusiasm and commotion into the hearts of the righteous, and excitement and joy into the hearts of the free!
Praise be to God, that the hosts of the Most Glorious Kingdom are coming together in large numbers and the Stars of the Highest Horizon are in uprising and ascension!  The Banner of Guidance is in motion, the Cloud of Bounty is descending in a shower, and the Luminary of the Horizon of Significance is shining!  The Feast and the enjoyment of the Kingdom are in complete harmony, and the Dawn of Favour is breaking with the Light of Guidance!  It is the Melody of the Kingdom of Abhá which is descending from the Supreme Concourse, saying
O dead one, who art without heart and soul!  Become alive!  Become alive!
O sleeping one, in the water and clay!  Be awake!  Be awake!
O intoxicated one, who art witless and gone astray!  Become sensible!  Become sensible!
The horizons are full of fragrance!  The eyes are full of light and the East is pouring down fire!  Get rid of body and soul!
The time of sacrifice has come; the Merciful Breath abounds and the Divine Secrets are disclosed!  Be a leader of lovers!  Be a leader!
The sweet song of the melodious singing bird from the Branch of the Cypress Tree in the Garden is expounding the problems of spirituality!  Be acquainted with the mysteries!  Be acquainted with the mysteries!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated in 1909.


IV:4, 17 May 1913
page 72
"O, My soldiers!  My beloved soldiers!  Forward!"
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá given in Stuttgart, Germany.
While 'Abdu'l-Bahá was one day looking out of his hotel window he observed a regiment of soldiers passing by in great array, and he said:
"They are ready to fight for their fatherland.  How barbarous it seems to send men, who do not even know each other, to the battlefield in order to shoot each other down.
"The Bahá'í Grand Army consists of the invisible angels of the Supreme Concourse.  Our swords are the Words of Light.  Our armament is the armament of heaven.  We are fighting against the forces of darkness.
"O, my soldiers!  My beloved soldiers!  Forward!  Forward!  Have no fear of defeat-do not have failing hearts.  Our Supreme Commander is Bahá'u'lláh.  From the heights of Glory He is directing this dramatic engagement.  He commands us!  Rush forward!  Rush forward!  Show the strength of your arms.  Ye shall scatter the forces of ignorance!
"Your war confers Life; their war brings death.  Your war is the cause of the illumination of all mankind; their war means the breaking and darkness of hearts.  Your war means victory upon victory; their war is defeat upon defeat.  Your war is the means of construction; their war is the origin of destruction.
"There are no dangers before you.  Push forward!  Push forward!  Attack the enemy!  Your efforts shall be crowned with the diadem of Eternal Peace and Brotherhood.
"His Holiness the Christ was fighting even upon the Cross, and His triumphant work continued through ages and cycles."


IV:4, 17 May 1913
page 73
Harriet M. Wise
6 February 1867-1 April 1913
On the morning of 1 April, at Hermosa Beach, California, our dear sister Harriet M. Wise ascended to the Supreme Concourse.  For a long time she had been a patient sufferer, but her life was prolonged that she might taste the sweetness of the past year, when, in July, with Mrs Goodall and Mrs Cooper, of Oakland, she spent several glorious days in the presence of the Centre of the Covenant.  She came home radiant in spirit but sick in body, and steadily declined in health.
Tablet to Miss Harriet M. Wise
HE IS GOD.
O thou who hast turned thy face towards the Kingdom!
I read what thou hadst written.  Know thou that there is in the world of existence a Centre, for each great matter, and bounties shower from that Centre.  For instance, in the circle of the sun, the sun is the centre of the light.  Likewise there is a real Centre for pure Love and now that Centre is manifest in this world, from which the Lights of Love reflect to all parts of the Universe.  If thou partake but one ray from that Centre, thou wouldst become self-sufficient from the world, finding a new condition and witnessing an exaltation which overshadows all the existence.  Pray God that thou mayest catch with all thy exertion the Lights of the Love from that Centre.
Upon thee be greetings and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
5 September 1905.


IV:5, 5 June 1913
page 88
The "strong rope"
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá concerning "Firmness in the Covenant".
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Harriet Cline of Los Angeles, California.
Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received.  It was an indication that thou art spending thy days in the Commemoration of the Blessed Perfection, and art firm and steadfast in the Covenant and Testament and art holding fast to the "Strong Rope".
Today firmness in the Covenant is the means of the promotion of the Word of God, and conducive to the effect of the word of man.  Any explanation, which does not accord with the Covenant will have no effect whatsoever.  Therefore, whosoever heralds the Covenant of God, unquestionably he is confirmed.
This has been tried a thousand times.  Any soul who violates the Covenant and Testament the least degree, immediately he is cut off; even in this material world he will become afflicted with remorse and regret.  Consequently as much as ye are able, call the people to the Covenant and make the souls firm and steadfast.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by M. Ahmed Sohráb, Paris, France, 29 March 1913.


IV:5, 5 June 1913
page 88
Three kinds of persecution
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered during his sojourn in America [first two paragraphs are a revised translation].
All who stand up in the cause of God will be persecuted and misunderstood.  It hath ever been so, and will ever be.  Let neither enemy nor friend disturb your composure, destroy your happiness, deter your accomplishment.  Rely wholly upon God.  Then will persecution and slander make you the more radiant.  The designs of your enemies will rebound upon them.  They, not you, will suffer.
Oppression is the wind that doth fan the fire of the Love of God.  Welcome persecution and bitterness.  A soldier may bear arms, but until he hath faced the enemy in battle he hath not earned his place in the king's army.  Let nothing defeat you.  God is your helper.  God is invincible.  Be firm in the Heavenly Covenant.  Pray for strength.  It will be given to you, no matter how difficult the conditions.1
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá was sent to 'Akká, he experienced three kinds of persecution.  Two kinds were easy to bear.  When he arrived in 'Akká they placed chains upon his limbs and circlets of steel were locked around his ankles and knees.  While the guards were doing this 'Abdu'l-Bahá laughed and sang.  They were as-
page 89
tonished and said, "How is this?  You are laughing and singing.  When prisoners are ironed in this way, they usually cry out, weep and lament."  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, "I rejoice because you are doing me a great kindness; you are making me very happy.  For a long time I have wished to know the feelings of a prisoner in irons, to experience what other men have been subjected to.  I have heard of this; now you have taught me what it is.  You have given me this opportunity.  Therefore I sing and am very happy.  I am very thankful to you."  After a time the men who had been appointed to keep guard over me became as loving brothers and companions.  They strove to lighten my imprisonment by acts of kindness.  They said, "In order that you may not be subjected to the jeers of the people when you walk upon the streets we will arrange your clothing so these chains are not visible."  They took the chains which were upon my limbs, gathered the ends together and wrapped them as a girdle around my waist, then arranged my clothing so no chains were visible.  One day I wished to go to the hammam (public bath).  The guards said, "It will not be possible for you to go to the bath unless these chains are removed; and furthermore it will attract notice from the people in the streets."  'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "I will go."
The guards then carefully gathered the hanging chains around my waist, covered them with my clothing and we went forth.  As we passed through the streets, 'Abdu'l-Bahá took the chains from his waist, flung their loose, dangling ends over his shoulders in full view and walked to the hamman, followed by a great crowd of hooting, jeering people.  The guards were most unhappy, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá was in supreme joy because of this opportunity to walk in the freedom of the Pathway of God.  After many years the doors of 'Akká were opened, the prison walls thrown down and the chains which 'Abdu'l-Hamid had placed upon the body of 'Abdu'l-Bahá were put around the neck of 'Abdu'l-Hamid himself.
In brief, this kind of persecution was easy to bear.  There was a second form of persecution to which 'Abdu'l-Bahá was continually subjected at 'Akká.  Spies and enemies were constantly informing the authorities that he was plotting against the government, that he was secretly instigating revolution and teaching principles in opposition to the Muslim religion.  In consequence of these reports and statements 'Abdu'l-Bahá underwent a great deal of restriction, difficulty and personal discomfort, but, Praise be to God! always in the utmost joy and exaltation.  Sometimes the rigour of his restriction was increased; often he was threatened with death; often threatened with confinement in another prison fortress, but nothing was accomplished by his enemies that could lessen his complete happiness.  On the contrary, the more falsehoods they invented, the more evident became his innocence and sincerity, the more constant his thanksgiving and rejoicing.  This form of persecution was likewise easy to bear.
But there was a third kind of persecution which brought 'Abdu'l-Bahá sorrow and unhappiness, a persecution difficult to bear:  the bitter words and criticisms of the friends.  Where love was expected, hatred and jealousy was found; instead of friendship and kindness, envy and discord were manifested; instead of harmony there appeared dissension and ill-wishing; in place of assistance and appreciation, calumny, falsehood and slander.  This is hard to bear.
Now, Praise be to God! turn all your thoughts and devote all your powers to the Divine Covenant.  Unless a servant in the Cause of God is subjected to all these persecutions he is not fitted to spread the Heavenly Message of Glad Tidings.  Follow 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  Let nothing hinder or defeat you.  God is your helper and God is invincible.



IV:6, 24 June 1913
page 104
Training for service in the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered during his sojourn in America.
I wish to train you until you have no other I thought, no other motive, no other wish than service in the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.  The Divine Educators who have brought the Light of Guidance to this world found neither rest nor comfort by day or night.  Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, Bahá'u'lláh,-all the Heavenly Messengers suffered the utmost privation and underwent extreme hardships in the Pathway of God.  They were exiled from their native land, imprisoned, driven from city to city; they were homeless, hungry and found no rest; they lived in the fields and hid in caves among the mountains; the sky was their canopy, the hard earth their bed.  But all these difficulties and hardships served only to increase their power and accomplishment.  Through these privations and persecutions they were severed from the world.  Although they walked upon the earth, they lived in Heaven.  Deprived of material food they partook of the eternal fruits of Paradise.  Homeless and forsaken in this world, they rested upon the Divine Couch of Nearness.  Day and night they were unceasingly proclaiming the Call of the Kingdom and establishing the foundations of the Most Great Peace.
It was so likewise with their disciples and followers.  All of them walked in the Pathway of God and drank the cup of martyrdom with thanksgiving.  They sought no rest but service and hastened to the Supreme Concourse in the utmost joy and ecstasy.
Through my training you must become so fitted to spread the Glad-Tidings of the Abhá Kingdom that you will follow in the footsteps of these blessed ones in gladness.  In Persia there is a wonderful breed of horses which are trained to run long distances at very great speed.  They are most carefully trained at first.  They are taken out into the fields and made to run a short course.  At the commencement of their training they are not able to run far.  The distance is gradually increased.  They become thinner and thinner, wiry and lean, but their strength increases.  Finally, after months of rigid training, their swiftness and endurance become wonderful.  They are able to run at full speed across rough country many parasangs1 of distance.  At first this would have been impossible.  Not until they become trained, thin and wiry, can they endure this severe test.
In this way I shall train you.  "Kam-kam," "kam-kam" (little by little, little by little), until your powers of endurance become so increased that you will serve the Cause of God continually, without other motive, without other thought or wish.  This is my desire.
__________
You must become impervious to criticism, unconscious of attack and abuse, nay, rather welcoming persecution, hostility and bitterness as the means of testing and increasing your supreme faith in God; even as His Holiness Christ instructed His disciples "Bless them that curse you; pray for them that despitefully use you."  Be therefore as spiritual adamant against these darts, arrows and swords of infliction.  We will help each other to bear them.  First by love and increased zeal in the Heavenly Cause.  For by exercise the spirit grows stronger, more capable of withstanding, just as the muscle of the outer body increases its fibre through continual action.  You must
page 105
help me and I will help you to increase our service in the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh Secondly; we will help each other grow more and more accustomed to punishment and persecution.  Years ago in Baghdád the usual punishment for offenders and lawbreakers was the bastinado.  The governor noticed that a certain band of men came repeatedly before him for trial.  They were regularly found guilty of breaking the law, sentenced and whipped upon the feet.  While the bastinado was being inflicted they appeared quite comfortable and evidently unconscious of pain.  In a few days these same offenders would be back again, going through the same process.  The governor made careful inquiry about them.  It was learned that they lived together in a house and that every day it was their custom to bastinado each other until the skin upon their feet had become so hardened to the whip that the legal bastinado gave them no inconvenience whatever.
Now we, as offenders against the opinions of our friends and enemies, must assist each other to become impervious to their criticism, unconscious of attack, welcoming their whips.  You must beat me and I will beat you with the whips of love.  The more we beat each other the more capable of withstanding we will become.  When the enemies find they are increasing our love, enkindlement and service in the pathway of Bahá'u'lláh, they will wonder and say, "How is this?  Our words have no effect upon them except to make them love us more and give thanks to God for our scourging."
The Blessed Beauty Bahá'u'lláh won the hearts of his jailers and tormentors.  No one could withstand Him.  The intense flame of His love melted the hardest stone of hearts.  The more chains of iron they put upon His body, the more He imprisoned them in chains of love.  They looked upon Him in wonder; they became His followers.


IV:6, 24 June 1913
page 105
Material and divine education
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá delivered during his sojourn in America.
The heart of man is a garden.  The real garden is in order, well planted, watered and cultivated.  This is not so with the jungle.  The jungle gives no evidence of cultivation.  Where there is no gardener disorder prevails.  Wild growth produces nothing.  Human education is of great importance.  It is especially necessary to educate the children.  They are the young tender trees of God's planting.  But the supreme education is Divine Teaching.  Through it the most ignorant become wise and the lowest are elevated to the loftiest heights.  This transformation in man is made by the Manifestations of God.  Through them the wicked become righteous, the weak firm, the barren fruitful.  One day's education under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is better than ten years material training in the universities of the world.  Bahá'u'lláh has said two steps are necessary for human development;-Material and Divine Education.  In the world of humanity, we see some seeking upward, some downward.
__________
Material scientists endeavour to show the evolution of the species man from the monkey.  The Prophets of God have been occupied in explaining that man has descended from the Divine Spirit.  The professors and learned scientists of materialism glory in the evidences that the ape is the progenitor of humanity and make exhaustive efforts to discover proof of it.  If we should ask the ape, he would say "Unquestionably we are all one,-of this I am certain without the aid of scientific inquiry, ethnological proof, biological deductions or geological findings; I believe what I see"-for the ape is a real, a true materialist.
__________
The real materialist is the animal.  Compared to the animal, man is but a tyro and novice in materialism.  The animal is a natural materialist.  He does not mention God and knows nothing about the Kingdom.  He depends solely upon sense perception.  That which is not perceptible to the senses he rejects.  From this standpoint of knowing the greatest Plato is the cow, and the donkey is an arch philosopher.  In the great university of nature, where nothing beyond the pale of sensibilities is classified as knowledge, the animal is a graduate and the human materialist but an under-graduate.
__________
If a child is left to its own natural proclivities, without education, it will embody all human defects.  Education makes of man a man.  Religion is Divine Education.  There are two pathways which have been pointed out by the Heavenly Educators.  The first is
page 106
Divine Guidance and reliance upon the Manifestations of God.  The other is the road of Materialism and reliance upon the senses.  These roads lead in opposite directions.  The first leads to the world of the Kingdom; the other ends in the world of human vices, and is contrary to the cause of Divine Guidance.  For example;-consider a babe at the mother's breast;-observe its natural aggressiveness,-its instinctive antagonism.  It claws and bites the mother, even attacks the fountain of life itself.  A barbarous and savage country is a country which has been deprived of education, where men are utter materialists like animals.  Such a nation embodies all human defects and vices.  They even kill and eat each other.  Divine Education is the sum total of all development.  It is the safeguard of humanity.  The world of nature is a world of defects and incompleteness.  The world of the Kingdom is reached by the highway of Religion and is the Heaven of all Divine Virtues.


IV:9, 20 August 1913
page 155
'Abdu'l-Bahá at Stuttgart and Esslingen, Germany
Extracts from Letters of Miss Alma S. Knobloch and Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, addressed to Mrs Pauline Knobloch Hannen.
The most impressive feature of the letters from Stuttgart was the description of the children's meeting, at Esslingen, about which Miss Knobloch wrote as follows:
"We have had some wonderful meetings; the one in Esslingen surpassed them all.  It was the children's meeting, last Friday, 4 April 1913, in the afternoon.  They had secured a very pretty hall, which was most beautifully decorated with greens, plants and flowers, with large and small tables near the walls and round tables in the centre.  About fifty children and eighty adults were present.  In a smaller room adjoining the hall the children had been assembled holding flowers in their hands, forming two lines for 'Abdu'l-Bahá to pass through.  It looked most beautiful as 'Abdu'l-Bahá came upstairs.  He passed through a short hall and looked so pleased and delighted to see the dear children."
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb says of this scene:  "I was overcome with surprise, emotion and joy, and could not contain myself; the tears filled my eyes.  It was the most beautiful, the most heavenly, the most artistic picture that I have ever seen in all my life.  It was so beautiful!  I cannot describe these things; one must feel them, see them.  It was a glorious day for these people, in a far-away town in Germany, to see with their own eyes the Beloved of all nations.  What love!  What attraction!  What enkindlement these German believers have!
"The children handed 'Abdu'l-Bahá their flowers as he came to them and greeted them.  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá's hands were full, he handed the flowers to one of the Persians, and went up one side and down the other.  Then he gave them small boxes of chocolates and bon-bons.  They were radiantly happy.  Then he spoke to them, saying:  'These children are of the Kingdom, they are illumined with the Light of God.  They have pure hearts, clear as crystal, wherein the rays are reflected.  I love them very much.  They are mine.  I hope they will receive Divine education, that they may receive Heavenly training; become fragrant plants in the Garden of Abhá.  They are very dear to me.  May God guide and protect them, make of them useful men and women for the advancement of the Kingdom on earth:
"Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered the hall.  I had to push the people back, for they had come to the door to see what was going on.  He seemed greatly pleased, as he entered the hall, to see the decorated tables and the green background.  After a little while, he gave an address, which I took down.  Tea was then served, and cake and chocolate were on the table.  A photograph was then taken of the entire group, a copy of which I am sending you.  After this 'Abdu'l-Bahá got into the automobile, the children crowding around and waving their flowers.  Then one after another stepped up and handed their fragrant tokens.  O, it looked really beautiful; I cannot describe it, so wonderfully sweet!  The children waving their dear little hands, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the auto, covered with flowers, waving his blessed hands to them.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said that this event would go down in history.  The following were his words spoken on the morning of 5 April, at Hotel Marquardt, Stuttgart:  'The effect of last night's meeting will be put on record in the world of eternity.  The mentioning of it will be throughout centuries and will be recorded in the countries of the Orient.  Because these children are tender plants, their hearts are clear and transparent.  They have not yet come to the dross of the world; that is why Christ said:  "Blessed are the children, for they are of the Heavenly Kingdom, being pure of heart."  That
page 162
was a spiritual meeting, a heavenly meeting, the Light of the Kingdom was shining upon it.  The Confirmation of the Spirit surrounded that meeting.'"
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá reached Stuttgart at 8 p.m., 1 April, and alighting from the train, proceeded at once to the hotel.  On the train he had said to the Persians:  "This is the best thing; we will arrive in Stuttgart, take our rooms in the hotel, settle down and call up the friends.  How surprised they will be!  Is this not a fine plan?  We are going to surprise them.  Then when they come they will find us in their midst, and knowing nothing about it at all.  Yes!  This is the best plan."  He sent for Messrs Herrigel and Eckstein, and Miss Knobloch, and it was arranged that evening that 'Abdu'l-Bahá would receive the friends during the morning hours at the Hotel Marquardt, engagements and meetings to be planned for afternoons and evenings.  The first afternoon was devoted to a drive in the Royal Park with Mr Herrigel, following which the many friends who were gathered at his home were seen.  Another meeting was held at Mr Herrigel's home that evening, at which 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, addressing the believers:  "How attracted and enkindled are the German Bahá'ís!  How full of love they are!  Love does not need a teacher."
On the morning of 3 April, many interviews were conducted, and numerous children were present.  At 3 p.m., when the stream of visitors had been seen, Consul Schwarz came with his automobile and 'Abdu'l-Bahá was taken to the famous Castle Solitude.  Returning to the Consul's home, a number of prominent men and women were addressed.  At 8 p.m. the first public meeting was held at the "Burger Museum"; more than five hundred persons were present.
4 April, many groups were seen at the hotel.  Among other things 'Abdu'l-Bahá said that morning, after four hours of consecutive talk:  "I was most happy to see the believers of Germany so holy, so pure and so united.  They are the Angels of the Paradise of Abhá.  You pray that the flame of the Divine Fire may be ignited in all Germany."  At 4 p.m. the party left in an automobile for Esslingen, where the children's meeting, previously described, was conducted.
On Saturday, 5 April, the morning was occupied with many interviews.  At 3 in the afternoon an automobile ride was planned to the Royal Palace of Emperor Wilhelm.  This most interesting and historical place is built after the plan of the Alhambra.  In the evening 'Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the Esperantists.
A trip through the noted cherry blossom district, with the trees abloom, and leading through the Black Forest, was a feature of 6 April.  Later group photographs, which are being sent, were taken at the Park in Wangenburg.  This was followed by a ride to Zuffenhausen, where Mr and Mrs Schweizer were visited at their home in that town.  That evening the largest public meeting of the series was given at the "Obere Museum", in Stuttgart.  This was arranged by the women Bahá'ís.  The day closed with supper at the apartment of Misses Knobloch and Döring.
7 April, Mergentheim-Bad, over 100 miles from Stuttgart, was visited, the trip being taken in automobiles of Consul Schwarz.  The night was spent there, returning to Stuttgart 8 April.  At 8 p.m. the party left for Budapest, making exactly eight days spent in and around Stuttgart.
Joseph H. Hannen.


IV:9, 20 August 1913
page 156
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at Stuttgart
On the Evening of 6 April 1913, in Obere Museum (Small Hall),
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb and Mr Eckstein, interpreters; stenographic notes by F. R. and M. Schweizer.
Translated from the German by Mr and Mrs Charles Ioas, Chicago.
...
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Many meetings are organized and established in all parts of the world; societies and organizations for the extension of general intercourse and extension of industry.  These are societies in the interest of arts, and political parties are formed in different lands to watch the interest of the party.  The establishment of all these societies is, in reality, only for the material life.  Praise be to God!  This illuminated assembly has no other purpose than to serve God.  It is established to bring about the oneness of the human societies, it is organized to establish the companionship among different nations and races, to promulgate universal peace, so that all religions may again find the foundation of unity, so that all nations may come under the shelter of mercy, for the foundation of all religion is brotherhood, comradeship and friendship to all.  But alas, a thousand times alas!  Religion, which should serve to promote oneness and love among men, has become an instrument of animosity and hatred.  Religion, which was established to build up and gladden hearts, has become a means of darkening the world.  All the prophets appeared that oneness of men might be taught.  How much suffering these prophets had to endure to unfold this illumination among men.  His Holiness Jesus Christ offered His life.  He endured the greatest humiliation; His head was crowned with a crown of thorns.  He endured all things so that the world might again unite and that He might cement the hearts of men through His love.  But today the first duties of religion are neglected.  The first duty and the basis of each religion is the love of God.  Love has vanished and hate and animosity have taken its place.  Instead of these simple principles we now have dogmas and imitations, and because the dogmas and imitations differ we have constantly strife and war.  Fanaticism is the only aim.  These fanatics are actually thirsty for their brother's blood, they condemned one another and considered each other unclean.
When this darkness encompassed the horizon of the East, there appeared in the Orient, Bahá'u'lláh, who illuminated the East.  He proclaimed the oneness of mankind.  He announced that all humanity are the sheep of One Shepherd, and God is the only true Shepherd of these sheep.  He is a kind and true Shepherd.  He could not be kind toward His sheep had He not created them.  If He did not love them He would not take care of them.  Now if God
page 157
loves all, why should we be unkind to each other instead of loving one another?  Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed the ideal of universal peace among religions.  The fundamental principle of religion is one and the same-all the prophets guided mankind to divine love.  They have called them to the knowledge of God.  They have taught them the unity of the human race.  They have summoned them to the furtherance of human virtues.  They have enlightened the fundamental law of morality.  The differences of the various religions are the results of dogmas and imitations, so we must give up dogmas and turn our faces to the foundation of religion.  Dogmas have always been the cause of strife, while religion was always the cause of Unity.  Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed that religion will again bring love and friendship to mankind; if it does not fulfil this duty, then is it a failure.  Religion must be the antidote for all illness.  If the medicine makes the sickness worse, then it is better not to take it.
Bahá'u'lláh also said that religious prejudice is the destroyer of the foundation of material well being.  All the messengers and prophets of God were the servants of ethics.  The greatest to which man can attain is love.  Love is the principle of creation.  Love is the cause of illumination to the world of humanity.  Love brings happiness and peace to men.  That is why Christ said "God is love."  The first and greatest command of religion is love.  The best divine service is to announce and promulgate love among mankind.
Women used to be oppressed in the Orient.  They were in every respect humiliated.  They were deprived of the opportunity to gain knowledge.  They could not study science or art, and in politics they had no voice at all.  Men did not consider them their equal.  Bahá'u'lláh announced that women have the same right as men.  He uplifted their conditions.  He said, "The world of humanity has two wings, the one is man, the other woman."  As long as both are not sufficiently strong, the bird cannot soar to the highest summit of the mountain.  When women once have the advantage of education and improvement, then will mankind reach perfection.  The women in the Orient have made great progress.  Many schools for girls have been established, in which they are taught sciences and arts.  They now have the possibility of endless progress.  In this short time many wonderful women among the Bahá'ís have shown that they are equally entitled to those achievements.
There are many wonderful teachings in the writings of Bahá'u'lláh which have been published in book form.  They are such as will bring great blessing to the world and will be the means of establishing peace among mankind.  In Persia many meetings are being held in which different religions are represented, Jewish, Christian, Muslim and Zoroastrian.  There is harmony and friendship among them.  They are at all times ready to sacrifice their lives for one another.  They serve with heart and soul in the cause of international peace.  For the spread of this cause more than twenty thousand persons have sacrificed their lives, because the old despotic rulers have opposed the ideal of peace.  All the followers of those religions were such fanatics that they were always ready to shed the blood of others.
Such occurrences as we hear of in the Balkans at present, and the blood which flows there, is only the outcome of religious prejudices.  Both parties, the Christians as well as the Muslims, declare it is a holy war, and thus religion, which should be the cause of peace, has become the cause of strife.  Religion, which should be the cause of uplifting humanity, has become the cause of her destruction.  Religion, which is the giver of life, has become the cause of death.
In short, all these associations, which are organized for the gain of the country or extension of commerce or the interest of parties, bring only limited blessings.  But the result of this assemblage will be everlasting, its favours are boundless, for it is established upon love.  Its fundamental principle is that we should turn our faces toward the kingdom of God; its aim is that God may breathe upon us.  It is our hope that the world of humanity may be united and I hope this assembly may become a fountain uniting the different religions, sects and nations.  Truly, I say, Stuttgart ought to be very happy.  I have seldom seen a more beautiful city.  I have visited many large cities, such as Paris, London, etc., but never a place which is so pretty and attractive as Stuttgart.  Wherever I go I see flowers and trees and fruit trees laden with blossoms, and I must not fail to mention, among other important things, her citizens.  The administration here seems to be correct and kind and for that reason the people have great possibilities.  It is my greatest desire that the inhabitants of this city may become the cause of spreading friendship and brotherly love throughout the world so that the light of brotherhood may shine from here, so that the world of humanity may become the abode of peace.


IV:9, 20 August 1913
page 158
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
To the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in Stuttgart and Esslingen, Germany.
Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye dear sons and beloved daughters of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
When the days that I was your associate and intimate, pass before the mind, the heart is stirred into cheerfulness.  What blessed days they were!  What radiant nights they were!  They will never be forgotten.
With the memory of you every morning I arise and every evening I raise the song of supplication toward the Kingdom of Abhá and beg assistance and confirmation for you.  I hope that, in Stuttgart, the Ensign of Signs may become unfurled, and the fire of the love of God may send forth such flames as will enlighten all around; that each one of those blessed souls may become like unto a lamp diffusing the light of guidance in all directions.
I send to those parts his honour, Mírzá 'Alí Akbar, and his honour, Mírzá Lutfu'lláh, that they may associate with the friends, convey to them the yearnings of the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and explain the degrees of the powers of the Covenant and the importance of the Centre of the Testament.  These two persons are very blessed.
Assuredly the believers shall obtain joy and happiness through meeting them.  Know ye this, that today the greatest of all affairs is obedience to the Centre of God's Covenant; the power of the Covenant shall stir the regions, and the spirit of the Covenant shall resuscitate.
Therefore, all the believers, in all the meetings and gatherings, must mention the Covenant and raise the song of the Covenant.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 9 June 1913, Paris, France.


IV:10, 8 September 1913
page 170
"The orb of the Covenant"
Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá and spread throughout America many years ago.
HE IS GOD!
O thou whom my heart addresses!
Know thou, verily, The Covenant is an Orb which shines and gleams forth unto the universe.  Verily, its light will dispel darkness, its sea will cast out the thick froth of suspicions upon the shore of perdition.  Verily, naught in the world can ever resist the Power of the Kingdom.  Should all mankind assemble, could they prevent the sun from its light, the winds from their blowing, the clouds from their showers, the mountains from their firmness or the stars from their beaming?  No!  By thy Lord, the Clement!  Everything (in the world) is subject to corruption; but The Covenant of thy Lord shall continue to pervade all regions.
Address thou the waverers and say:  "Have ye forgotten that which transpired in the time of Christ?  Are ye not informed of the events which took place in His blessed Day?  Did not the Pharisees rise against Him?  Did they not give verdict to the shedding of His blood, to the murder of His friends and to oppressing His chosen ones?  Have ye not heard concerning the heretics, the violators of His Covenant (who appeared) after Him?  Are ye not informed of those kings, princes, learned and prominent men who persecuted Him?  Did ye not see what has been the end of the persecutors?"
And do thou advise them and illumine their inmost part, and say unto them:  "By God, the True One!  Verily, 'Abdu'l-Bahá is assisted by the Beauty of Abhá who helps him with a Power whereunto all the heads are made humble.  You shall surely find the banner of hypocrisy reversed, the foundations of discord demolished and the Standards of Peace and Harmony waving throughout all regions!"
O my friend!  Verily, Bahá hath commanded me to be forbearing and patient, to conceal (their doings), to forgive and pardon.  Otherwise, I would have rent their covering, disclosed their sins, divulged their deeds, depicted their character and unveiled their manners.  Verily, thou art already informed of some of their deeds and it is sufficient for you.
Consequently, turn thy face unto the Kingdom of The Covenant, thy heart beating with the Love of God, thy soul attracted to the Fragrances of God, thy tongue speaking of the appearance of the Kingdom of God, thy insight rending veils asunder and disclosing the realities of things-and with a power which may move the heart of all in the world.
This is a confirmation from the Lord of the Effulgence, while all else save this shall never profit thee!  This is that by reason of which thy face shall gleam, thy heart shall be dilated with joy, thy soul become pure, thy back strengthened, thy spirit rejoiced and thine identity quickened.  Leave the people of suspicion behind thy back and adhere to the Manifest Signs.
By God, the True One!  Verily, the people are drunken and asleep, confused and heedless, and this will drag them to the lowest of the low.  This is no other than a manifest loss!
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:10, 8 September 1913
page 171
The power of "The Covenant of God" alone regenerates mankind
Recognition of "The Centre of the Covenant"-the important matter before the world today.
Extracts from a letter to a Bahá'í Assembly in America.
Charles Mason Remey.
During my travels of the past few months I have found that while the problems of each assembly assume their own special character, there is but one vital universal question.  This is that of firmness in The Centre of the Covenant.  Until this matter is solved no problems are solved; and when this matter is solved (when we are firm in The Covenant), all of our problems are solved.
When the members of an assembly are each and all firm in The Centre of The Covenant they are then organically united and the life of The Covenant is manifest in their midst-thus the will and the desire of God may be accomplished.  In no other way can it be done.  We all must be firm in The Centre of The Covenant, in the love of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
__________
"The Root of all knowledge is the knowledge of God, Glory be to Him, and this knowledge is impossible save through His Manifestation."-From "Words of Wisdom", Bahá'u'lláh.
God has manifested Himself in this day, as in times past, that mankind shall be quickened and aroused from his human or natural condition of spiritual darkness into one of spiritual illumination or life eternal.
The spiritual, or divine life, of the soul is not a condition into which man can evolve by virtue of his human perfection.  It is a condition into which he is born only through believing in, having faith in, and obeying the Manifestation of God sent unto him through the bounty of the Eternal One.
The divinely quickened soul has within it that element of spiritual or eternal life which is not found in natural or human man.  This is the line of demarcation or differentiation between the kingdom of man and the Kingdom of God.
In the mineral kingdom there is no physical life, while in the vegetable kingdom there is physical life.  In the kingdom of natural or human man there is no divine or spiritual life, while in the spiritually quickened souls there is divine, spiritual or eternal life.
Eternal life or divine illumination is not spontaneously generated in the souls of men.  Man receives this new life directly from the Manifestation of God or the "Word Revealed".
The Manifestations of God have been the unique centres from which the world has received all knowledge of God, and outside of these divine channels no divine enlightenment has ever come to humanity.  Therefore, how necessary and important is it that in each prophetic day mankind should seek God's revealed Word, and abide there in centring their lives in the Manifestation of God.
Through each of the Divine Revelators of the past, God made the promise to man that during these latter days of the world He would establish His Divine Rule upon earth-that He would fulfil His Covenant, and establish His Kingdom Triumphant among men.
In the coming of The Báb who was The First Point, Bahá'u'lláh who was The Pre-existent Root, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá The Branch, Branched from The Pre-existent Root-in this triple coming is realized the fulfilment of all of the Divine Promises of the past and the establishment of the Covenant of God.
As the life in the branch of the tree is the same as that in the root, so the Divine Spirit manifest in 'Abdu'l-Bahá-The Branch-is the same as that manifested in Bahá'u'lláh-The
page 172
Root-'Abdu'l-Bahá has sacrificed all in The Path of Bahá'u'lláh, and now the Power of Bahá'u'lláh is manifesting to the world through 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He is the Centre of Guidance-The Centre of The Covenant; therefore all must turn wholly and without reserve unto him, for 'Abdu'l-Bahá is The Chosen One, the unique channel through which the Power of God is being conveyed to each individual Bahá'í, as a member of God's Kingdom upon earth.
The believers may be compared to leaves upon The Branch.  Through the branch, and through the branch only are the leaves nourished from the root of the tree.  As the branch is the only intermediary between the leaves and the root, so 'Abdu'l-Bahá The Branch [for there is but one Living Branch, branched from Bahá'u'lláh, The Pre-existent Root], is the intermediary between the believer and the Pre-existent source of Divine Power which is Bahá'u'lláh.
As the Power and stability of the tree is due to its firm, organic connection with the root, so is the power and strength of 'Abdu'l-Bahá the Power and Strength of God, because he is branched from the Pre-existent Divine Root of The Word of God manifested in Bahá'u'lláh.  As the well-being of each leaf depends upon its firm and organic connection with the branch, so does the spiritual well-being of every Bahá'í depend upon his or her spiritual connection with The Branch, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
In storm and tempest, when the tree is shaken, those leaves that are alive in the branch remain upon the tree; while in those leaves in which the life of the branch is not-the dead leaves-these fall to the ground, having no life in them.  When the unity and steadfastness of the Bahá'ís is tested those who are strong in The Centre of The Covenant, those in whose souls lives the Spirit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-will remain firm and steadfast throughout all conditions, while those who are not firmly attached to The Branch will, with the first troubles, drop away from The Covenant.  In this condition their station is a worse one than that of those who have never heard The Lord's Call.
__________
This day is seeing great changes in the religious thought of the world.  Everywhere the natural world of man is being prepared for the Kingdom of God.
In the springtime the ground is broken and prepared to receive the seed, this preparation has to do with the mineral elements in which there is no life.  When the seed is sown the elements of vegetation descend into the earth in which inorganic material grows the vegetable, an organic body against which the inorganic forces of the mineral kingdom have no avail.  Although every force in the mineral kingdom is against the principle of vegetative life, yet notwithstanding this very opposition the vegetable lives, grows and dominates the mineral.
In like manner is every human condition of the natural man opposed to the life of the spiritual man.  Before the Divine Messengers of God have sown the spiritual seeds of the Kingdom, the hearts of men, in which there were no elements of divine life, have through human trials and conditions been broken and prepared to receive God's Word.  His Word has taken root and grown in the soil of the hearts of men while every element in the being of the natural or human man has been against the growth of the newly quickened spirit, yet it is because of this conflict that spiritual man has become strong and had dominion over the natural or human in man.
This natural human force against the religion of God has ever been the spirit of the Anti-Christ.  Where the light is the brightest, the shadows are the blackest.  In the day of each Manifestation, when God's Glory was manifest to illumine the hearts of men, those illumined souls who followed The Word have always been surrounded from without by the most subtle influences working upon them, to sever, if such were possible, their spiritual connection with the Channel of Divine Grace-The Manifestation of God.
The spirit of Anti-Christ is the spirit of denial of the Word Manifest.  The opposition of the mineral to the vegetable causes the vegetable to grow firm and strong, and the opposition of the forces of human man, the spirit of the Anti-Christ, cause the divinely quickened souls to grow strong and steadfast in The Kingdom.
In this day humanity as a whole is being prepared for the quickening of God's Kingdom.  Creeds, dogmas and philosophies of the past are being broken and shattered and are without spiritual effect.  The religious thought of the present world is like shifting sand.  This world thought is against the growth of the Cause of God-against the Bahá'í Cause-for the religion of Bahá is not merely a Cause of God, it is The Cause of God, outside of
page 173
which there is no source of Truth in this world.  It is The Divine Covenant and 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the God-appointed Centre of that Covenant.
The very fact that the Bahá'í Cause is the essence of the Creation of the New Kingdom, places it, in kind, above all other forces at work in the world.  It dominates all.
__________
In general the human philosophy of man is this:  That by a natural process of evolution he evolves from a state of human darkness into one of spiritual illumination.  That he has inherently within himself the spark of divine life itself, and this simultaneously develops without the instrumentality of a prophet or Divine Revelator, and then through his own virtues man attains to God's Kingdom.
It is curious that in this age people still cling to such imaginations when history shows that each new civilization has had its birth in a new religion, and that each new religion has had its quickening power through a Prophet or a new Manifestation of the one Pre-existent Word of God.
Mankind has ever tried to create a way to Divine Grace through means other than those provided by God.  It is recorded that at one time men tried to build a tower out of the materials of the earth in order to escape earthly conditions and arrive at heavenly conditions.  Confusion fell upon them, and the affair ended in division and dispersion.  We look back upon this story of the Tower of Babel and we see therein a vivid portrait of the spiritual condition of this world of the present day.
Before the mind of the world is the idea of the Millennial Age of Peace with all of its ideal institutions.  Upon every hand institutions are being founded and carried on with the object in view of bringing about peace ideals.  Instead of using spiritual means to achieve a spiritual end they are using material means!  The divine institution of the Kingdom of God cannot be built with any other than spiritual means.
Regarding these mundane conditions which hold the world in a state of war, and trouble from which humanity cries out for freedom, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has repeatedly said that there is but one power which shall prevail against them and that power is the power of The Covenant of God.
God has established His Kingdom.  His Kingdom is the Bahá'í Cause.  This is His Covenant.  It is the stone which has been rejected by the people of the world, and now it has become the foundation of "Peace on earth", having its Centre in The Centre of the Covenant.
For many years 'Abdu'l-Bahá has been imploring and calling the people to "firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament", which is firmness and steadfastness in The Centre of The Covenant which is 'Abdu'l-Bahá himself.  The reason for this repeated call is now becoming apparent to the Bahá'ís, for upon this connection, 'Abdu'l-Bahá depends the well-being of the Cause.
Consider:  With the physical body its well-being depends upon the perfect connection or unity of each of its organs with the heart from which the life forces are forthcoming.  'Abdu'l-Bahá being the centre of spiritual life in the world today, is the heart of the Kingdom of God-the Bahá'í Cause-so the spiritual well-being of the Cause (as well as of its individual members) depends upon the connection of all the various members with The Centre of The Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
When an organ of the physical body is not in proper function with the heart, and does not receive nourishment through the blood, it ceases to function and dies.  When a Bahá'í cuts himself off from 'Abdu'l-Bahá who is the source of his spiritual life, he dies spiritually and is no longer of the Kingdom.  Therefore, it behoves all to keep in the closest of spiritual touch with 'Abdu'l-Bahá holding to his Word, obeying him in both the spirit and the letter and never for one instant looking in airy direction other than toward him-the divinely appointed Centre of The Covenant.
__________
There are those individuals referred to as the nakezeen who, after embracing God's Truth and associating themselves with His Cause, have denied The Centre of The Covenant and dropped away from the Power of The Cause.  They are as dead-as spiritual corpses-and from them goes forth to the believers a poisonous infection from which the believers must be protected lest they also become infected and in like manner fall ill and die to the realities of God's Kingdom.
Consider:  Whenever an organ of the body becomes diseased the whole body suffers-the vital forces of the body flow to the ill member that it be resuscitated and again function normally.  If; however, that organ becomes gangrenous or dies, and putrefaction sets in, it becomes necessary to use the surgeon's knife.
page 174
Thus, even a diseased member must be cut off from the body else the whole body will die.
When a Bahá'í is suffering spiritually, all of the friends should surround that soul with love, showing kindness and attention upon it in order to bring it back again into close communion with 'Abdu'l-Bahá-for there is but one cause of spiritual disease among the Bahá'ís, and that is a state of instability in The Centre of The Covenant.
But when a soul has wholly and completely severed himself from 'Abdu'l-Bahá-denied The Centre of The Covenant, whether either openly by words, or subtly in his heart in secret, that soul is dead spiritually.1  It becomes a dead or gangrenous member of the body of The Cause.  Its condition is infinitely more deplorable in this state than before it heard The Truth while it was yet in the human or the unquickened condition of the natural man.  When a soul falls into such a state of violation of the Covenant, there is but one thing to do and that is for the friends to cut it off from the body of The Cause, for if the friends do not sever themselves from such an one they will themselves become infected by this deadly condition, and then the whole assemblage of the friends will become diseased.
In a recent Tablet The Centre of The Covenant states:
"Let them (the Bahá'ís) be awake!  Let them be mindful!  As soon as they see a trace of violation of The Covenant they must hold aloof from the violators."
And again in another Tablet he says:
"Firmness in The Covenant means Obedience so that no one may say, 'this is my opinion,' nay rather he must obey that which proceeds from the Pen and Tongue of The Covenant."
We Bahá'ís are commanded to treat the opposer of The Cause as the friend, and to shower kindness upon those who persecute and cause trouble for the Bahá'ís.  However, the condition of the opposer of The Covenant, and the condition of the denier of The Covenant are wholly different.  The opposer is one who has not yet been awakened to the Truth.  He is outside of The Cause and can have no avail against it, whereas the denier is within the body of The Cause, and until he is taken out from the body of The Cause his diseased condition is infecting the whole body.
Physically a man has nothing to fear from poisons which are kept outside of his body.  His danger lies when poisons enter into his body.
Imagine a family in which a death occurs.  Although each of the survivors be in a state of perfect health, yet it is necessary to remove the corpse of the departed from the house, for with the putrefaction of the corpse the disease contagious would prevail and all would die.
We know that our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá does not wish any soul to be deprived of the Bounties of The Kingdom, nevertheless when The Cause of God is at stake, the individual who is damaging The Cause must go.  'Abdu'l-Bahá recently wrote
"Such souls are nothing but pure harm to The Cause of God, and it is very well that they go out, for the abominable deeds of such souls are like unto an axe at the root of The Cause."
__________
It is one thing to be merely "attracted" to the divine teachings of God's chosen revelator, and another thing to become so centred in His Chosen One as to sacrifice all in His Path.  The first case is only to have one's attention called to the bounties of the kingdom; the second is to know and to recognize The Centre of Spiritual Guidance through, or from, which the knowledge of the Kingdom proceeds.
In the day of Jesus, the Christ, vast multitudes were attracted to Him and to His Cause, but of these there were but twelve men and a few women who believed to the point of recognizing in Him the Glory of God Manifest The Christ.  This recognition was what quickened the souls of His Disciples and the early Fathers, and it was by this and by this alone, that they were given the power to go forth and
page 175
give Christ's Message to the world.  The great Christian civilization (the bounties of which the people of the world are now enjoying) had its birth or main spring in the Revelation of Jesus, and its spiritual quickening in those who, like Peter, recognized Jesus to be "The Christ, the Son of The Living God"; whereas those souls who were merely attracted to Jesus and before really believing slipped away from The Cause, played no part in the great organic growth of Christianity.
So it is again in this day of revelation.  How many souls are attracted to 'Abdu'l-Bahá How many crowd to see him and to hear him, yet the real blessing is that of realizing in him The Centre of God's Covenant.
From the following quotation from the "Tablet of the Branch", revealed by Bahá'u'lláh the importance of this matter will be clearly understood
"O, ye people! draw nigh unto it [The Branch (The Centre of The Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá)] and taste the fruits of its knowledge and wisdom on the part of The Mighty, The Knowing One.  Whosoever will not taste thereof shall be deprived of The Bounty, even though he hath partaken of all that is in the earth-were ye of those who know. ...  Say.  O people, praise ye God for its manifestation [The Branch] for verily The Branch ['Abdu'l-Bahá] is the most great power upon you, and the most perfect blessing upon you; and through Him every mouldering bone is quickened.  Whosoever turns unto Him hath surely turned unto God, and whosoever turneth away from Him hath turned away from My Beauty, denied My Proof, and is of those who transgress.  Verily, He is the Remembrance of God amongst you, and His Trust within you, and His Manifestation unto you, and His appearance among the servants who are nigh.  Thus have I been commanded to convey to you The Message of God, your Creator; and I have delivered unto you that of which I was commanded."
Following this and other similar commands revealed by Bahá'u'lláh the true and firm Bahá'ís have turned with implicit faith towards 'Abdu'l-Bahá The Branch, The Centre of The Covenant, in whom they find their illumination, their guidance, their strength, their hope, their all.
THEREFORE, RECOGNIZING IN 'ABDU'L-BAHÁ THE CENTRE OF GOD'S COVENANT, IS, IN THIS DAY, THE ONE ALL-IMPORTANT MATTER BEFORE THE WORLD, FOR IN HIM IS THE POWER OF THE COVENANT OF GOD, WHICH ALONE IS TO REGENERATE MANKIND.
__________
The difficulties and problems of an assembly will solve themselves when everyone concentrates their faith in The Centre of The Covenant.  Study "The Tablet of The Branch" and 'Abdu'l-Bahá's address upon "The Covenant" given in New York City, 19 June 1912, and also his Tablet upon "The Covenant".  These latter were published in Washington, D.C., in pamphlet form.  They can be obtained by writing to the Washington assembly.
My love and greetings to all the friend's.
Yours in The Centre of The Covenant,
Charles Mason Remey.
Honolulu, Hawaii, 19 July 1913.


IV:10, 8 September 1913
page 175
Extract from a Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Spread throughout America many years ago.
O servant of God!
Know thou, verily, the Fragrances of the Garden of The Covenant have perfumed all regions, the Standard of The Testament is waving upon the castles of glory, and there is no refuge for those who flee from this strongly fortified Fortress!
Do the people of surmise imagine that there is for them any other retreat than this Blessed Region from which the Lights have shone forth, the mysteries have appeared and the signs are being diffused?
O servant of God!  Arise to promote the Word of God, to promulgate The Covenant of God, and chant the Verses of God with such power whereby the elements of discord may tremble in those regions!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:10, 8 September 1913
page 176
The Centre of the Covenant
Lest some of the friends may think, when reading Mr Remey's excellent presentation of this vital subject-published in this issue of the Star of the West-that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is now teaching something new regarding "The Centre of The Covenant", we have reproduced Tablets (see pages 170 and 175) which were spread throughout America many years ago, wherein is plainly stated that which is now becoming clearly understood.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has always maintained this position as The Centre, although for some years this Centreship has been veiled from the people because of their spiritual blindness.
__________
In the following Tablet, recently received, 'Abdu'l-Bahá sends greeting to all who are "firm in The Covenant and Testament":
To Mr Roy C. Wilhelm, New York City.
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou my spiritual son!
Thy letter written on _____, 1913, was duly received.  Thank God that thou art firm and steadfast in the Cause.  Today the magnetic power that attracts the divine confirmation is firmness and steadfastness.  The tree whose root is firm will yield luscious fruit.
The building whose foundation is solid will stand the rush of torrent and hurricane.  The steamer which is built strongly will resist the battling waves.  Therefore, thank thou God that thou art aided in firmness and steadfastness.  Likewise, thy kind father and mother.  I beg from the divine Favours that each one of you may be in the utmost state of firmness and steadfastness like unto a mountain and withstand the attack of all the people of the earth.  Then ye shall observe how the divine confirmations shall descend uninterruptedly.
Convey on my behalf respectful greeting to all the believers and the maid-servants of the Merciful who are firm in the Covenant and the Testament.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 August 1913.  Ramleh, Egypt.
__________
Anti-Christ
In Mr Remey's article is mentioned the "spirit of anti-Christ".  The words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá regarding this subject, quoted below, may be of interest at this time:
"Some say 'Abdu'l-Bahá is anti-Christ.  They are not informed of the Bahá'í principles.  Bahá'u'lláh established Christ in the East.  He has praised Christ, honoured Christ, exalted Him, called Him the Word of God, the Spirit of God, raised the Name of Christ to supreme summits of glorification.  Throughout the Orient the Bahá'ís have illumined the lamp of Christ and spread his mention.
"Did not His Holiness Jesus Christ ignite the
page 177
world with the Light of Moses?  Did He not fulfil the Religion of Moses?  Did He not spread the Book of Moses to the remotest East and West?  Christ was the cause of spreading the Teachings of Moses and promulgating the Old Testament.  Notwithstanding this, the Jews consider Christ the enemy of the Religion of Moses,-the destroyer of the foundations of the Law of Moses.  The Pharisees blasphemed Him night and morning,-called Him 'Satan' and 'Beelzebub'.  This is recorded in the text of the Gospels.
"History will repeat itself.  Bahá'u'lláh will be assailed in the same way by those who are not informed of His principles and Teachings."


IV:11, 27 September 1913
page 190
'Abdu'l-Bahá's "welcome" to California
Address delivered at the home of Mrs Helen S. Goodall, Oakland, California, 3 October 1912.
Dr Amín U. Faríd, interpreter; stenographic notes by Miss Bijou Straun.
I am going to say, "Welcome," to you, instead of your welcoming me.  I am most happy to be here with you.  I am exceedingly joyous, and I offered thanks to His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh that the potency of His Word was instrumental in bringing about such a meeting.
In the world many people go from one country to another.  Perchance they may go from here to the Orient; perchance some may come from the Orient here; but such journeys are for travel, or commercial purposes, or for some political reason, or the motive may be some scientific achievement, or they go on journeys in order to meet friends.  All such meetings are accidental; they are concerned with the exigencies of the world of nature.
But I have come from the Orient to the Occident-this vast distance have I crossed with no commercial purpose in view, nor travel as an object, nor politics as a reason.  It has been simply to meet you.  Whereas the meeting of others is generally accidental, our meeting is real, essential-for the hearts are connected and the souls are attracted and the spirits are exhilarated, and such a meeting is real in character, and great are the results therefrom.  The results are everlasting.
Consider the by-gone times.  There occurred a meeting like this one-that is to say, that meeting emanated from the attractions of the conscience.  It was due to the spiritual bond.  It was due to the fraternity of heaven.  Regard the results which have later become concomitant!  What lights have shone therefrom!  What a new spirit has been breathed thereby!
Therefore, I beg of God that this meeting of ours may likewise be a spiritual meeting, may be a heavenly meeting, may be a cordial bond, may be of divine susceptibilities, may be a result of the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  Thus, may its traces be everlasting, may its results be eternal, may it be an indissoluble bond and an association inseparable.  May it be a love which shall be never ending.  This is my hope, and you who have turned to the Kingdom of God, and you who are set aglow with the fire of the Love of God, must so earnestly endeavour that this meeting shall give forth eternal results.
And what will bring this about?
This will be brought about by your acting in accordance with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  This is dependent upon your becoming resuscitated by the Divine Spirit.  The Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh is, in relation to the body of the world, as the spirit of man is to his body.  In relation to the body of the world (humanity), Divinity is as the light within a lantern.  In relation to the soil of the hearts, it
page 191
is the quickening shower.  In relation to the spiritual growth of the trees, it is the vernal breeze; and in relation to the recovery of the diseased body politic, it is a quick acting remedy, because it is the cause of the oneness of the world of humanity.  It is love among all mankind.  It is a bond which unites all the religions.  It is the unity which welds together all the races.  It is the connection between all the countries.  It is universal peace among the nations.  It is universal peace among all the peoples.  It is the universal peace which will bring together all nativities.  And undoubtedly it is the spirit of the world.  It is the light of the world.  Likewise, it is an impetus to the promulgation of knowledge, and it is the cause of agreement of religion with science and reason.
All the nations of the world today are subject to certain superstitions which animate them along the line of prejudice, hatred and rancour.  These superstitions are the cause of warfare and battle.  For blind imitations of religion are ever various and unreal; but the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are reality itself, and reality is the fundamental basis of all the divine religions.  Hence these teachings are the very cause of uniting all humanity.  They are the cause of love among the hearts of men, for they are reality.
The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are likewise concerned with good conduct, and good conduct is the greatest effulgence of the All-Glorious.
Unless ethics be improved, the world of humanity will be incapable of true advancement.  Real advancement is dependent upon the world of humanity becoming a centre of divine morals, becoming a place of the effulgences of the Merciful, becoming a mirror reflecting the bestowals of God.  Thereby the world of humanity will become the image and likeness of God.  Until these virtues reveal themselves in the world of humanity, real progress and advancement will not be possible.
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh addressing all mankind, says:  "Ye are all the leaves of one tree and the fruits of one branch."  This signifies that the world of humanity is representative of one tree, and all mankind representative of its leaves, its blossoms and its fruits.  Therefore, all the inhabitants of the earth have grown through their attachment to this tree and all are reared and nurtured through the shower of divine mercy.  It is self-evident that this teaching is the very spirit of this age.  It is life-giving, because through love it animates the people, and it casts alienation utterly aside.  It brings all into friendship and unity.
Among the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh is one requiring man, under all conditions and circumstances, to be forgiving, to love his enemy and to consider an ill-wisher as a well-wisher.  Not that he should consider one as being an enemy and then put up with him, or to simply endure him, or to consider one as inimical and be forbearing toward him.  This is declared to be hypocrisy.  This love is not real.  Nay, rather, you must see your enemies as friends, ill-wishers as well-wishers and treat them accordingly.  That is to say, your love and kindness must be real.  Your well-wishing must be reality, not merely forbearance, for forbearance, if not of the heart, is hypocrisy.  The people of Reality1 will not accept it.
Among the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh is one on sacrifice.  Man must arrive at the point of sacrifice; and the station of sacrifice is that of complete severance-that is, his possessions, his comforts, even his life must be sacrificed for humanity.  Until man arrives at such a station, he is deprived of the effulgences of God and from the bestowals of the Merciful, and from the breaths of the Holy Spirit, which, in this radiant century, have become apparent and resplendent.
And among the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh is one relative to the fact that God has created man to yield some fruit from his being, or existence, an eternal fruit, an everlasting result.  If the world of humanity be confined to the short space of material life here, if man should devote his energies to temporary results-for the life of this world is short, the blessings of this world are temporary, the virtues of the world of nature are temporary, the happiness of the world of nature is temporary-this cannot be called fruitage, because it is temporary and hence useless.  Nay, rather, man must be a blessed tree bearing eternal fruits.  Thus everlasting spirituality may be his.
The real fruit of the human tree is everlasting, and that is the love for God, that is the knowledge of God, that is service to the world of humanity, that is kindness to all mankind, and that is endeavouring and striving for the material and spiritual-or ideal-development of the world of man.  This is the
page 194
everlasting fruit.  This is the divine effulgence.  This is the divine bestowal.  This is the everlasting life.
The teachings are lengthy, but I state them briefly, and from these brief statements, which are fundamental, you must learn the full teachings.
Praise be to God!  We have assembled here, and the cause of our gathering here is the love of God.  Praise be to God!  The hearts are kind toward each other and the heavenly radiance is resplendent.
I am hopeful that the hearts may be moved, the souls may be attracted, and that all will act in accordance with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.


IV:11, 27 September 1913
page 192
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá concerning "backbiting"
Tablet to Dr M. G. Skinner, Washington, D.C.
HE IS GOD!
O thou my doctor!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast written regarding thy aims.  How blessed are these aims, especially the prevention of backbiting!  I hope that you may become confirmed therein, because the worst human quality and the most great sin is backbiting; more especially when it emanates from the tongues of the believers of God.  If some means were devised so that the doors of backbiting could be shut eternally and each one of the believers of God unsealed his tongue in the praise of the other, then the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh would be spread, the hearts illuminated, the spirits glorified and the human world would attain to everlasting felicity.
I hope that the believers of God will shun completely backbiting, each one praising the other cordially and believe that backbiting is the cause of Divine wrath, to such an extent that if a person backbites to the extent of one word, he may become dishonoured among all the people, because the most hateful characteristic of man is fault-finding.  One must expose the praiseworthy qualities of the souls and not their evil attributes.  The friends must overlook their shortcomings and faults and speak only of their virtues and not their defects.
It is related that His Holiness Christ-May my life be a sacrifice to Him!-one day, accompanied by His apostles, passed by the corpse of a dead animal.  One of them said:  "How putrid has this animal become!"  The other exclaimed:  "How it is deformed!"  A third cried out:  "What a stench!  How cadaverous looking!"  But His Holiness Christ said:  "Look at its teeth!  How white they are!"  Consider, that He did not look at all at the defects of that animal; nay, rather, He searched well until He found the beautiful white, teeth.  He observed only the whiteness of the teeth and overlooked entirely the deformity of the body, the dissolution of its organs and the bad odour.
This is the attribute of the children of the Kingdom.  This is the conduct and the manner of the real Bahá'ís.  I hope that all the believers will attain to this lofty station.
Upon thee and upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 August 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.


IV:12, 16 October 1913
page 203
'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Nineteen-Day Feast1
Held 16 October 1912, at the home of Mrs Helen S. Goodall, Oakland, California.
Dr Amín U. Faríd, interpreter; stenographic notes by Miss Bijou Straun.
Praise be to God! you are the guests of Mrs Goodall.  With the utmost love has she prepared this feast, and every kind of food is before you.  The effulgence of the mercy of Bahá'u'lláh is resplendent.  The hearts are attracted to the love of God.  The eyes are turning toward the Kingdom of Abhá.
This is a heavenly feast, an excellent meeting.  Surely this is praiseworthy.  The Supreme Concourse now is beholding this assemblage, proclaiming aloud:  "Blessed are ye!  Blessed are ye!  Blessed are ye who are the servants of Bahá'u'lláh!  Blessed are ye who are the manifestors of faith!  Blessed are ye who have such radiant countenances!  Blessed are ye whose hearts are like unto rose gardens!"
Consider what a great bounty has been bestowed upon you, what a favour has been revealed unto you, that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is now walking about amongst you commemorating Bahá'u'lláh!  In the utmost of love am I walking about and greeting each and all of you.
Man is possessed of two types of susceptibilities.  One is physical, the other spiritual, in character.
Physical susceptibilities have certain avenues of expression, and spiritual susceptibilities likewise have their avenues.  The physical, or material susceptibilities have their channels of expression in the physical realm.  Earthly fraternity is due either to a family relationship, or to a commercial bond, or to a bond of love based upon policy or politics, or to a racial bond which supplies that affection, or to a bond patriotic in foundation.  These are physical susceptibilities and ordinary outward love.  But spiritual susceptibilities, namely, real love and heavenly fraternity, emanate through divine channels.  They emanate from faith, or they emanate from knowledge, or they emanate from the bounty of the Holy Spirit, or they emanate from the effulgence of the Sun of Reality.
Praise be to God! you are imbued with spiritual susceptibilities, for verily you have been gathered together in this meeting through the love of God.  It is the bounty of the Kingdom which has summoned you here.  It is the Most Great Guidance which has called you here.  It is the power of attraction which has drawn you together here, and it is the bestowal of the Kingdom of Abhá which has invited you to this feast.  These are spiritual susceptibilities, and these are emanations of the conscience.  Because of these susceptibilities, this radiant youth is seated here, and in the utmost of love I am patting him on the shoulder.
I am happy to see you gathered here in love:  Please continue eating while I talk.
His Holiness Christ, on a certain eve, invited His disciples to His table, and while seated at that table, He gave certain admonitions and precepts unto them.  As a result of the benediction and admonitions, the supper was called the "Lord's Supper".  Inasmuch as there was present the material bread, and likewise the heavenly manna which was descending upon them, it was verily the Lord's Supper.
Now this evening you have gathered in this assemblage and are seated at this bounteous table.  Praise be to God! the material food is prepared for you.  The heavenly manna also is present for you, and that consists of the love of God and the knowledge of God.  You are turned toward the Kingdom of God, and you are overshadowed beneath His providence.  The eternal bounty encompasses you all, and the light everlasting is all-surrounding.
This table, likewise, is heavenly in character.
page 204
This food is manna from heaven.  I hope earnestly that the results of the Lord's Supper-that super which was in the utmost of love and fellowship and severance from all else save God-may be realized at this supper also.  Thus may you associate one with the other in perfect fellowship and friendship, and may all of you rejoice in many such feasts.  Thus may the hearts be exhilarated and the faces be turned to the Kingdom of Abhá.  Then will you be instrumental in reconciling all the religions and all the races, and in creating a bond that will unite all the nations of the world.  Thus, in the centre of the world, shall be pitched the tent of the oneness of humanity, and the standard of universal peace shall be unfurled and wave throughout the world.  Then in the future there will be no doubt as to this supper being the Lord's supper, for it is productive of love and fellowship, and will become the cause of the illumination of the world.  Every supper that is productive of love and unity, the cause of radiance throughout the world, of international peace and of the solidarity of man, is undoubtedly the Lord's supper.
In a word, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh shone forth from the Horizon of the Orient, even as the sun, casting a radiance over the world.  During His lifetime He did not rest a moment, nor did He repose comfortably one night.  He suffered many trials.  He was a prisoner.  He was enchained.  He was exiled.  All these ordeals did He endure in order that perfect fellowship and love should blend the hearts together.
Praise be to God! the labours of Bahá'u'lláh have not been in vain, for among your hearts love has been created.  All of you are together in the utmost of love.  I hope that you will be the cause of transforming the whole world of man into a feast like unto this, wherein the hearts of all shall be welded together, the lives of all shall be glad-tidings.  The world of humanity then will become as a tree, and all men as its branches, twigs, blossoms and fruits.  This is my wish and desire.
In the utmost of joy partake of this feast.
Benediction
[After the feast, 'Abdu'l-Bahá stood on the
page 209
balcony of the stairway and, raising his hands in blessing, pronounced a benediction.]
O kind Lord, verily this assemblage is longing for Thee and loving Thy beauty.  Verily, these friends are set aglow with the fire of Thy love and are joyful because of Thy presence.  They have turned to Thy kingdom, seeking naught but Thy good pleasure, desiring naught but to pursue Thy pathway, and seeking naught save Thy good will.  Not a day passes but they are occupied with Thy commemoration and are ever ready to serve Thee.
O God, illumine these hearts.  O God, make joyous these lives.  O Lord, suffer these souls to attain to the superlative degree of spirituality in the world of humanity.  O Lord, suffer these souls to become truly distinguished, and make them the manifestors of Thy favour and the recipients of Thy good gifts.  Shine upon them with Thy radiant splendour, waft over them the breeze of Thy providence, and pour upon them the rain of bestowals from the clouds of Thy generosity.  Thus these souls, like the flowers of the rose garden, shall grow in verdure and freshness, and among all mankind shall they be redolent of delightful fragrance.
O Lord, confirm them all in Thy service, and aid them in guiding others to Thee.  Brighten the eyes through witnessing Thy great signs; fill the ears with harmonies through Thy melodies; and refresh the nostrils through the fragrances of Thy Kingdom.  Confer upon these souls the life everlasting, gathering them all together beneath the tabernacle of the oneness of the world of humanity.
Verily, Thou art the Almighty!  Verily, Thou art the Powerful!  Verily, Thou art the Giver of good gifts!


IV:12, 16 October 1913
page 205
The visit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mr Charles Tinsley
San Francisco, California, 10 October 1912.
[Mr Tinsley (coloured) was recovering from an accident]
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  How are you?  I am very glad to see you.
Mr Tinsley:  I am well excepting this broken leg which has kept me in bed a long time.  I am impatient to be up and out to work for the Cause.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  You must not be sad.  This affliction will make you spiritually stronger.  Do not be sad.  Cheer up!  Praise be to God, you are dear to me.  I will tell you a story:
A certain ruler wished to appoint one of his subjects to a high office; so, in order to train him, the ruler cast him into prison and caused him to suffer much.  The man was surprised at this, for he expected great favours.  The ruler had him taken from prison and beaten with sticks.  This greatly astonished the man, for he thought the ruler loved him.  After this he was hanged on the gallows until he was nearly dead.  After he recovered he asked the ruler, "If you love me, why did you do these things?"  The ruler replied:  "I wish to make you prime minister.  By having gone through these ordeals you are better fitted for that office.  I wish you to know how it is yourself.  When you are obliged to punish, you will know how it feels to endure these things.  I love you so I wish you to become perfect."
[To Mr Tinsley] Even so with you.  After this ordeal you will reach maturity.  God sometimes causes us to suffer much and to have many misfortunes that we may become strong in His Cause.
You will soon recover and be spiritually stronger than ever before.  You will work for God and carry the Message to many of your people.


IV:12, 16 October 1913
page 205
"This is one of the meanings of sacrifice"
Talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to one of the friends, 22 October 1912.
God will assist you.  One of the great prophets of the Orient, one of the worthies of the East, called 'Alí, says, that whosoever seeks after anything and is serious about it, will find it.  Seek and ye shall find.  Whosoever knocks at any door and is persistent about it, there is no doubt that the door will be opened unto him.
Now, as long as you are interested in the Faith, and interested seriously, and you are investigating reality, you are the lover of reality, there is no doubt that you will attain.
When man dedicates his life to a cause, he must dedicate entirely, then he is really dedicated.  It is not through word, but through deed.  One must dedicate his life completely, fully, in reality, just as the dead branch sacrifices its life to the fire, and just as the oil sacrifices its life to give light.  This is the great station-the station of sacrifice.  There is no greater station than this.
In Oriental language, there is the expression, "May my life be a sacrifice to you," and a man writing a hundred letters a day might use these words a hundred times and yet he would not sacrifice anything for his friend.  But this is a custom-a usage.  Everybody who writes a letter to his friend says "May my life be a sacrifice to you," and perhaps he does not realize the meaning at all.
The station of sacrifice is the great foundation.  When you read the Old and New Testament, you will find that constantly the word "sacrifice" is mentioned.  It is recorded that the Jews sacrificed sheep so that their sins might be forgiven.  In the time of Adam, Cain made sacrifice of sheaves of wheat and Abel made sacrifice of sheep.  Now this is a symbol, and this word extended after the time of Christ.
What is the symbol?  Just as the sheep sacrificed its life, likewise this natural state of man, which is the animalistic state, must be sacrificed.  How should it be sacrificed?  The vices of the animalistic state of man must be entirely annihilated, and he must be characterized with divine virtues.  It was a symbol and before His Holiness Christ appeared, all the Jewish prophets made sacrifice of animals.  This was a mystery of that higher sacrifice and when Christ came he said, I will sacrifice myself for the sake of the salvation of all.  What did He mean?  He meant to change their characters, and in this way make them heavenly, in this way make them Godlike, spiritual and divine.
This is one of the meanings of sacrifice.


IV:12, 16 October 1913
page 206
Interview between 'Abdu'l-Bahá and a San Francisco newspaper reporter
To a correspondent of The Examiner, 3 October 1912.  This interview was published next day in a form almost unrecognizable.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Correspondent:  Are you pleased with the United States?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The continent of America is most progressive.  The means of instructions are prepared; the educational institutions are thoroughly equipped and the pupils are being systematically trained and educated.  The wealth is on an upward tendency.  Its government is democratic.  Its advancement is unceasing.  Its nation is hospitable.  Its people are loyal, energetic and noble.  Its inhabitants are free and the lovers of liberty.  Its men are civilized and its women are cultured, refined and idealistic.  On the other hand, all these advantages are on the material plane, and I observe the majority of the people are submerged in the sea of materialism and agnosticism.  The natural civilization is well-nigh perfect; but it is in need of the civilization of heaven-Divine civilization.
Correspondent:  What do you mean by "Divine civilization"?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Divine civilization is the light.  Material civilization is the lamp.  Material civilization is the body; in itself it is not sufficient, and humanity from every standpoint stands in sore need of divine civilization.  Natural civilization ensures material welfare and prosperity; Divine civilization vouchsafes to man ideal virtues.  Material civilization serves the physical world; divine civilization serves the world of morality.  Divine civilization is a symposium of the perfections of the world of humanity.  Divine civilization is the improvement of the ethical life of a nation.  Divine civilization is the discovery of the reality of phenomena.  Divine civilization is the spiritual philosophy.  Divine civilization is the knowledge of God with rational and intellectual evidences.  Divine civilization is Eternal Life.  Divine civilization is the immortality of the soul.  Divine civilization is the Breath of the Holy Spirit.  Divine civilization is heavenly wisdom.  Divine civilization is the reality of all the Teachings of the ancient prophets.  Divine civilization is Universal Peace and the oneness of the world of humanity.  The Holy manifestations of God have been the founders of Divine civilization, the first Teachers of mankind, and the spreaders of the fragrances of holiness and sanctity amongst the children of men.
Correspondent:  Are you satisfied with the American people?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The American people are a stranger-loving people.  All nations are welcomed in their midst.  They give to everyone the right of living and the pursuit of happiness.  Here no one feels a foreigner, I am satisfied with all of them.
Correspondent:  I have heard that you advocate the complete equality of men and women.  This radical teaching coming from an Oriental thinker is of great interest and supreme significance.  Just at this juncture the California women are clamouring for the right to vote for all the national and state officials, and your opinion on this important question will be greatly appreciated by the people.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The question of equality between men and women has made greater advancement in America than elsewhere, and day by day it is assuming greater importance and becoming nearer to realization.  However, as long as complete equality does not exist between male and female, the world of humanity will not make extraordinary progress.  The woman is an important column, and there is another equally important.  If we aim to have a durable building, the foundations of both columns must be laid very deep.  The women are the first teachers and instructors of the small children.  They teach them and inculcate morality in their minds and hearts.  Later they go to universities for higher education and specialization.  Now if the teacher or instructor is deficient, how can the scholar be properly trained?  Therefore, it is proven that the culture and refinement of the men are intensified and will bloom and attain to perfect fruition when the women are equally educated and given the same educational facilities.  Consequently the women must enjoy all the learning they are able to assimilate, in order that they may reach to the same level as men.  The same privileges and opportunities must be conferred upon women;-so that just as they share together life and its responsibilities, they may also share with him the same virtues of the world of humanity.  Undoubtedly partnership in education and culture presupposes equality in rights.  The world of humanity has two wings, one wing male, the other wing female.
page 207
Both wings must become strong, so that mankind may soar to the empyrean realms of its destined perfection.  But if one wing is left weak and the other strong, its upward flight will be slow.  God hath created both human.  They share together and in common all the faculties.  No one is endowed with special privileges.  How can we make a distinction which is unknown in the sight of God?  We must follow the policy of God.
Moreover, there is male and female in the vegetable kingdom.  They are on an equal footing.  Inherently they enjoy suffrage and there is no distinction between them.  Likewise in the animal kingdom the right of suffrage and equality is enjoyed without any feeling of superiority of privilege.  Therefore, it is well known that there is no distinction of gender in the vegetable and animal kingdoms, although they are deprived of the faculty of reasoning, and they have not the power of distinguishing.  How can we, who are confirmed with the bestowal of reason, and enjoy all the facilities with which man is distinguished from the animal, act, in this manner and build these false barriers?  Many women have appeared who have won for themselves fame and name, for the versatility of their intellects and the brilliancy of their thoughts.  Amongst the Bahá'í women many have shown remarkable capability in literature, sciences and arts, and have rendered distinguished service in every department of life.
In history many capable women appear who have displayed special genius in government and political administration, such as Semiramis; Zenobia, Queen of Palmyra, and Queen Victoria, of England.  In the religious world,-the Jews wandered for forty years in the wilderness and could not conquer the Holy Land.  Finally a woman achieved the signal victory.  During the Christian dispensation the apostles became agitated after the Crucifixion of Jesus; even Peter denied Him thrice, but Mary Magdalene became the cause of their becoming firm and steadfast.  In the Religion of Bahá'u'lláh, Qurratu'l-'Ayn and many other Persian women demonstrated their knowledge and wisdom to such an extent that even the men were astonished, and listened to their advices and lectures.
Correspondent:  What is your object in coming to America?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  I have come to America to promote the ideal of Universal Peace and the solidarity of the human race.  I have not come for pleasure or as a tourist.
Correspondent:  What do you think about women's fashions?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  We do not look upon the dresses of women, whether or not they are of the latest mode.  We are not the judge of fashions.  We rather judge the wearer of dresses.  If she be chaste, if she be cultured, if she be characterized with heavenly morality, and if she be favoured at the Threshold of God, she is honoured and respected by us, no matter what manner of dress she wears.  We have nothing to do with the ever-changing world of modes.
Correspondent:  What is the greatest thing you have seen in America?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The greatest thing I have seen in America is its freedom.  In reality this is a free nation and a democratic government.
Correspondent:  What is your opinion about Turkey and the Balkan War?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  We have nothing to do with war.  We are advocates of peace.  Speak to us about the condition of peace.  Go to diplomatists and militarists and ask their opinion about this war.  But as regards peace:  In the world of humanity there is no more important affair, no weightier cause.  It is conducive to the well-being of the world of creation; the means of the prosperity of the nations; the reason of eternal friendship between the people; the cause of solidarity between the East and the West; the promoter of real freedom, and the Most Eminent Favour of His Highness the Almighty.  We must all strive to upraise the flag of international peace, the oneness of the world of humanity and the spiritual brotherhood of mankind.
[The correspondent tried to ask a few more questions, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá interrupted him by this final statement while putting his hand on his shoulder and kissing his face:]
Consider how much I love thee, and to what extent I respect Mr Hearst, that notwithstanding the fatigue coming over me as the result of a very busy day, I have answered all thy questions.


IV:12, 16 October 1913
page 208
"The lofty summit of unchanging purpose"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Lua Getsinger, Ramleh, Egypt, 19 August 1913.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Thou must be firm and unshakeable in thy purpose; and never, never let any outward circumstances worry thee.  I am sending thee to India to accomplish certain definite results.  Thou must enter that country with a never-failing spirituality, a radiant faith; an eternal enthusiasm, an inextinguishable fire, a solid conviction, in order that thou mayest achieve those services for which I am sending thee.  Let not thy heart be troubled.  If thou goest away with this unchanging condition of invariability of inner state, thou shalt see the doors of confirmation open before thy face, thy life will be a crown of heavenly roses, and thou shalt find thyself in the highest station of triumph.
Strive day and night to attain to this exalted state.  Look at me!  Thou dost not know a thousandth part of the difficulties and seemingly insurmountable passes that rise daily before my eyes.  I do not heed them; I am walking in my chosen highway; I know the destination.  Hundreds of storms and tempests may rage furiously around my head; hundreds of Titanics may sink to the bottom of the sea, the mad waves may rise to the roof of heaven; all these will not change my purpose, will not disturb me in the least; I will not look either to the right or to the left; I am looking ahead, far, far.  Piercing through the impenetrable darkness of the night, the howling winds, the raging storms, I see the glorious Light beckoning me forward, forward.  The balmy weather is coming, and the voyager shall land safely.
Qurratu'l-'Ayn had attained to this supreme state.  When they brought her the terrible news of the martyrdom of the Bahá'ís, she did not waver; it did not make any difference to her; she also had chosen her path, she knew her goal, and when they imparted to her the news of her impending death, no one could
page 210
see any trace of sorrow in her face; she was rather happier.
Although she never cared for dress, that day she wore her best white silk dress and jewellery and perfumed herself with the most fragrant attar of roses.  She hailed the chamber of death as a happy bride entering the nuptial bower of the bridegroom.
To this lofty summit of unchanging purpose thou must attain; like Qurratu'l-'Ayn, nothing must shake thy firm faith.


IV:12, 16 October 1913
page 210
"I am summoning you to the world of the kingdom"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Howard MacNutt, after the Titanic disaster.
A great steamship has been lost at sea.  Today newspaper accounts of the Titanic are reflecting the sorrow and mourning of the whole world, all the power of man, all his pride and the skill of human invention were helpless against the power of the sea.  Men of great wealth, men of prominence and celebrity, likewise men who were unimportant and unknown in the eye of the world,-all have found the same tomb under the waves.  If this fate marked the end of human accomplishment, if this death was oblivion to human hopes and possibilities, the whole world might mourn.  Unless the soul of man is quickened by the breaths of the Holy Spirit and he becomes vivified by the life of the Supreme Kingdom, all his powers, efforts and accomplishments are in vain.  Look about you as we ride in this automobile.  Shall any of these things you are now looking upon remain or endure?  If you possessed all you could wish for,-these great buildings, wealth, luxury, the pleasures of life in this world, would any of these things increase your eternal happiness or insure you everlasting existence?  I am summoning you to the world of the Kingdom.  I am calling you away from this world.  Nothing you can ever think of here will remain.  You, yourself, will pass away as the roses wither at the touch of winter's breath.  I wish for you heavenly happiness.  I am praying that the confirmations of God may descend upon you, that you may become His servant, that you may go forth to save mankind from the bondage of this mortal world.  I wish you to escape from this hell of materialism.  Be not occupied with material things.  Have no anxiety about your affairs.  You are under the protection of Bahá'u'lláh,-in His service.  Live in the spiritual world as I do.  Think of nothing else.
Look out upon this great city through which we are passing.  Then think of the wealthy men entombed in the ocean's depths.  The powers of man in material civilization are wonderful, but all his accomplishments are as nothing,-he, himself, is as non-existent unless he upbuilds in himself the civilization spiritual.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has no other thought than this.  This is his heart, his soul, his station, his service,-to quicken mankind with Divine breaths and walk in the pathway of the Heavenly Kingdom.
When I was a young man I was devoted to music.  So charmed and delighted was I with it that even an Arab clapping two sticks together in rude rhythm gave me great pleasure.  Now my love for these things has gone completely.  On the steamship crossing the sea a great modern orchestra played each night.  The passengers listened to it with the deepest interest and enjoyment.  But although the music was the very finest, the orchestra modern and most excellent, I found it occupied and disturbed my thoughts to such an extent that I retired to quiet reflection upon spiritual things.
I wish you to live in the world of the Spirit-to see the Divine Reality in everything,-to behold the illumination of the world of the Kingdom beyond and within the gloomy mask of this mortal existence.  For the world of the Kingdom is a world of Lights, a world of happiness, a world of accomplishment, the real and eternal world.
[After a long pause,-looking reflectively out the window] I was asked to sail upon the Titanic, but my heart did not prompt me to do so.


IV:13, 4 November 1913
page 223
"It is hoped a radiant palace may be prepared for thee!"
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a Christian Minister at Washington, D.C.
HE IS GOD!
O respected personage, thou seeker of Reality!
Thy letter was received.  It was not a letter but a mirror in which was reflected the images of Reality.  Therefore, through its reading and perusal the happiness of the heart was obtained.  If the earthly house is destroyed, be thou not sad-may the palace of the Kingdom be upraised!
O thou bird of Reality!  If thy terrestrial nest is ruined, be thou not unhappy-the heavenly nest is destined for thee.  His Holiness, the Christ, the Holy Manifestations and the apostles possessed no nest whatsoever in this mortal world but in the universe of God, a glorious palace.  It is hoped that through the Divine Bestowal, in a lofty station, in the universe of God, a radiant palace may become prepared for thee.
Consider that the palaces of former kings, from the day of Adam to the present time, are destroyed and ravaged by the relentless hand of time, but the towering palace of the believers of God are eternally built and never subject to destruction.  Reflect carefully and thou shalt observe that all the foundations are uprooted but the foundation of the apostles of Jesus, which is becoming firmer and loftier day by day.
It is my hope that thou shalt likewise lay the basis of such a lofty palace.  The foundation of this palace is to summon the people to the Call of the Kingdom of God; its galleries are the Principles of Bahá'u'lláh and its decorations the writings of the world of humanity; its radiant lamps are the lights of the Divine Kingdom.
Therefore, strive as much as thou canst to quicken the dead souls, to guide the erring ones, to cause to drink those who are thirsty and invite those who are hungry to sit around the heavenly table and partake of the Divine Food.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 September, 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.


IV:13, 4 November 1913
page 225
First anniversary of the passing of Thornton Chase
Los Angeles Bahá'ís hold services in their Assembly Hall and at the grave.
In loving compliance with the request of 'Abdu'l-Bahá the friends in Los Angeles and vicinity celebrated the first anniversary of the passing of our brother, Thornton Chase.  A party of ten went to the grave on the afternoon of 30 September, decorated the grave with flowers and spent an hour in prayer and communion.
...
We give you below extracts from two hitherto unpublished talks of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, while in Los Angeles, in regard to our brother.  The first is from his talk given on Saturday night, 19 October 1912, the evening of the day of the visit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to this sacred spot, and the second is the closing words of his final talk on Sunday, 20 October 1912	H. C. W.
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
I came from San Francisco to see you and to visit Mr Chase's grave.  Truly, Mr Chase was a glorious personage, having no desire save the good pleasure of God.  His attention was directed to the Kingdom of God.  He served during his lifetime.  He was not at all wanting in service.  He compiled certain books proving the validity of the Faith.  As much as he could, he endeavoured to guide the people.  You will never forget him, may you ever pray for him, be ever respectful to his family, and be a source of comfort to them.  As many times as possible-at least once a year-you should make it a point to visit his tomb, for his spirit will be exhilarated through the loyalty of the friends, and in the world of God will it be happy.  The friends of God must be kind to one another, whether it be in life or after death.
__________
The deceased, his honour Mr Chase, was a blessed soul; he was a holy reality.  His station in this life was not known.  Yesterday I took a special trip and visited his tomb.  At the time of visiting his tomb I found wonderful spirituality.  You must celebrate yearly, annually, the day of his departure from this life, and all of you, on my behalf, may go and visit his blessed tomb; and if possible spread a feast for the poor and give charity to those who are deprived on that occasion.1  Mention the services he has rendered, read passages from his words, and
page 226
explain the history of his life.  This is my wish.  I have arranged that there may be placed a tombstone on his resting place, and have written a sentence that may be engraved on that stone.  For I loved Mr Chase very much indeed.  His heart was pure.  He had no other aim except service to the Cause; he had no other thought except the thought of the Kingdom.  Therefore he was very near to me, and at the threshold of Bahá'u'lláh he was accepted.  The Blessed Perfection has invited him to His Kingdom.  At this very moment he is submerged in the Sea of His Bounty.
Now, I say goodbye to all of you.  At five o'clock I leave the hotel.  But I will never forget you.  You will ever be in my memory.  I will ever pray for you and beg assistance and confirmation for you.


IV 14, 23 November 1913
page 240
"Bring them together again, O Lord, by the power of Thy Covenant!"
Bring them together again, O Lord, by the power of Thy Covenant, and gather their dispersion by the might of Thy Promise, and unite their hearts by the dominion of Thy Love; and make them love each other so that they may sacrifice their spirits, expend their money, and scatter themselves for the love of one another.  O Lord, cause to descend upon them quietness and tranquillity!  Shower upon them the Clouds of Thy Mercy in great abundance, and make them to characterize themselves with the characteristics of the Spiritual!  O Lord, make us firm in Thy noble command, and bestow upon us Thy Gifts through Thy Bounty, Grace and Munificence.
Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, and the Benevolent.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV 14, 23 November 1913
page 240
Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mr Roy C. Wilhelm
Upon whom be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou, my dear son!
Thy letter, dated 3 July 1913, was received.  Its contents indicated the firmness and steadfastness of the believers of God and told of the holding of a divine meeting in your radiant, charming country place.  Praise be to God, that that day was spent in the utmost joy and happiness.  That annual memorial meeting will be the souvenir of 'Abdu'l-Bahá especially when it is passed with infinite delight and gladness.2
The confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá shall descend uninterruptedly upon those souls who are firm in The Covenant.  Thou hast well observed that every firm one is assisted and aided and every violator is degraded, humiliated and lost.  It is very astonishing that people are not admonished.  They have observed how Mírzá Muhammad 'Alí, on account of the violation of The Covenant, descended to the lowest degree of humiliation and yet they do not become mindful.  They have seen how others through disobedience to the Testament have fallen into a well of degradation, and yet they are not awakened.  This Covenant is The Covenant of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Now its importance is not
page 241
known befittingly, but in the future it shall attain to such a degree of importance that if a king violates to the extent of one atom, he shall be cut off immediately.
Consider that during the life of Christ (may my life be a sacrifice to Him!)-His Cause had no importance whatsoever; nay, rather the people scoffed and ridiculed Him and according to the Text of the Gospel, they called Him, Beezlebub.  Now you can see the importance which it had later.  In short, thank thou God, that-praise be to Him!-in the garden of The Covenant thou art like a fragrant hyacinth and in the congregation of the love of God like an ignited candle.
Convey the wonderful Abhá greeting to his honour Mr Harris and his honour Mr Hoar and all the believers in God.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 August 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.


IV 14, 23 November 1913
page 241
The confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá shall descend uninterruptedly upon those souls who are firm in The Covenant.  Thou hast well observed that every firm one is assisted and aided and every violator is degraded, humiliated and lost.  It is very astonishing that people are not admonished.  They have observed how Mírzá Muhammad 'Alí, on account of the violation of The Covenant, descended to the lowest degree of humiliation and yet they do not become mindful.  They have seen how others through disobedience to the Testament, have fallen into a well of degradation, and yet they are not awakened.
This Covenant is The Covenant of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Now, its importance is not known befittingly, but in the future it shall attain to such a degree of importance that if a king violates to the extent of one atom, he shall be cut off immediately.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV 14, 23 November 1913
page 242
Service in the Kingdom
This article was approved by The Centre of the Covenant, and some copies in both English and Persian were spread in 1906.
In the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is found recurring and recurring the command to SERVE; to go forth and teach and spread the glad tidings of the coming of the Kingdom;1 and together with this command is his promise to all, that through doing this, his bidding they will receive Divine confirmation and spiritual strength.
In physical man the heart is the centre of the life of the body, and from it is sent forth the blood which feeds and nourishes every part of the body.  In like manner is 'Abdu'l-Bahá the heart and centre of the body of believers in the world.
The Bahá'í Faith is The Covenant which is in this day established upon the earth, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the Centre of this Covenant.  From him all members of it receive spiritual force and sustenance.
As the organs which make up the physical body of man are dependent upon connection with the heart in order that they may receive life force, so are the believers-composing the spiritual body of The Faith-dependent upon their connection with 'Abdu'l-Bahá for through Him and through Him only, can they receive the spiritual force and sustenance necessary for their growth and development in the Kingdom.
Regarding the organs of the physical body, one sees two factors in their various workings, namely, a receiving of energy and force, and a giving off of the same.  The organs receive the life force from the heart and give it off according to their various functions; however, as soon as the supply of blood is cut off, the organ ceases to function and to give off energy; and, again, as soon as an organ ceases to do its work properly, the supply of life force from the heart is diminished.  This is a law of nature in the physical realm which governs the healthy action of every member of the physical body.
Now consider the body of the faithful believers:  If any one member severs his connection with the Centre of the Covenant-from whom all receive their spiritual force-he ceases to be a living and active member of the body; and, again, if he be not working and performing his function in the Kingdom, the supply of spiritual sustenance flowing to him from the Centre of the Covenant will be diminished in proportion as he fails to perform his work.
The well-being of any organ of the human body depends upon its continued action, and upon this also depends the well-being of the human body as a whole.  So it is also with the body of believers.  Each one has a special and a necessary work to perform, and his own salvation, as well as the general welfare of the body as a whole, depends upon his performing this duty.
In this day the believers are being tested and tried.  There are great forces in the world working against them, and only the strong and steadfast ones will be able to stand.  The only way by which one can obtain spiritual force and vitality to arise above all conditions and to attain to divine development of soul is through carrying out most minutely this command of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to work and to go forth to teach and to spread the Kingdom.
All are standing in the "eleventh hour" of this Great Day, and no one knows when the great world tests, of which 'Abdu'l-Bahá has so often spoken, will be upon "the faithful".  When these calamities descend, there will no longer be any time to consider ways and means for carrying out his, commands.
So, now, while there is yet time, let all arise with steadfastness of purpose to carry out the Holy Command to SERVE, in order to establish themselves as faithful servants in The Lord's Vineyard.
Charles Mason Remey
Washington, D.C., January, 1906.


IV:15, 12 December 1913
page 250
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá uttered at Ramleh, Egypt
If you are sincere in your love for me, then love and serve the believers of God; then love and serve your fellow-men.
These days, I do not feel very well.  My remedy is to hear that the believers love each other.  Any other news makes me sick and unhappy.  Let everyone speak to me about love and I will love him more.  The friends must be real peacemakers; not stirrers up of strife nor sowers of seeds of discord, nor acting with superiority one over another.
I am now growing old.  O, very old!  All through my life I have carried on my back, gladly, the burdens of the believers; but now I ever anticipate hearing the good news of service actually accomplished by them.  Save this, I have no other joy in the world.
Will they not make me happy?
Will they not answer my call, when the shadow of the last night of my earthly life is falling slowly across my path?
Will they not arise with superhuman energy and united effort to spread the Cause and impart to me new vigour?
Will they not listen to me?
How my heart leaps with joy when I hear the friends love each other, always overlooking one another's small mistakes; and that they are forgiving their enemies!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Words uttered at Ramleh, Egypt, 28 October 1913.


IV:15, 12 December 1913
page 251
'Abdu'l-Bahá
That which is the most important of all the affairs in this day is to teach the cause of God!
You must engage in the diffusion of the Fragrances of God, so that ye may impart life to the worlds, illumine the dark regions, confer new existence upon these mouldering, dead bodies, make intelligent and mindful these negligent hearts.  Thus may they free themselves from this nether world and soar toward the Universe of the Almighty!
From a Tablet to Albert R. Windust, Chicago.  Translated 23 October 1913, Ramleh, Egypt.


IV:15, 12 December 1913
page 251
A call to teaching!
Extracts from the "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb"
This is the divine season of seed sowing
"It is not my duty to command particular persons to arise and teach the Cause.  Whosoever arises to spread the Word and performs this service, will behold the Doors of Confirmation are open wide before his face.  This is the season of teaching, and therefore it will yield results.  In every season, something will be productive.  If, during the seed-sowing time, we want to gather the harvest, we shall fail.  If at the time of irrigating, we desire to do something else, failure will be the result.
"Now, this is the Divine season of seed-sowing.  Every Bahá'í must become a heavenly cultivator.  If, at this season, he performs the prayers of all the past and future ages, it will yield no fruit.  My primal object of this long trip was to show, by deed, to the friends of God, that this is the season of teaching the Cause.  Although 'Akká and Haifa [Syria] are the headquarters of the Cause, and I should stay there and from those Centres administer the affairs of the Cause, yet I left everything and travelled throughout the earth to herald the coming of the Kingdom of Abhá.
"Any person desiring to be surrounded by the Confirmation of the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh], must arise and teach the Cause.
"This is the Path!"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
From the "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 2 July 1913.
__________
We must be up and doing
The Bahá'í Cause is much in need of real, earnest workers; workers who will surmount all opposition, meeting the antagonist as a firm rock before the blowing of the winds of tests and storms of trial.  How many trees are uprooted by one tempestuous wind and how many ships have been wrecked by one storm!
There are many lands athirst for the Water of Life; let the friends of God irrigate them with the vernal showers now descending from the Kingdom of Abhá.  There are many souls hungry for the Heavenly Bread; we must invite them to the Banquet of the Lord.  The lethargic must become active, the sleeping ones must be awakened; the dispirited ones receive a share of the inexhaustible Favours, and the sweet music of the Supreme Concourse be heard.
We must be up and doing some kind of service, no matter how slight it is.  Praise be
page 252
to God! that the Orb of the Centre of the Covenant is shining and His Mercy is all-encompassing.  He is teaching us, and gently and lovingly guides us in the right path.  We all hope to serve him in some way or another; to win his good pleasure by sincerely walking in his footsteps; to become the signs of his love; the embodiment of his compassion, and the humble followers of his eternal law.
From the "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 3 July 1913.
__________
The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is the solvent for all problems
Whether we live in the East or in the West, the invisible Power of Bahá'u'lláh is unifying our scattered forces and training us for the service of His Kingdom-the kingdom of universal love and inter-racial amity.  Today, the world of humanity is in need of this Power more than at any other time.  The keen competition which is carried on by the captains of industry and finance; the discontent and social unrest of the labouring classes; the bigotry and extreme fanaticism of religionists; the heat and bitterness with which fantastic controversies are upheld between sectarians; the spirit of superiority with which some nations look upon others; the lust of conquest and the desire for the extension of territory; the social and political rivalries between nations and governments, and the hatred and enmity existing between the different races:  all these antagonistic forces clashing against each other, apparently aggravate the situation and make "confusion worse confounded".
But the Power of the Blessed Perfection has come to stay, bringing healing under its wide, outstretched wings.  This Power alone is the solvent for all these puzzling problems.  There may be found here and there some medicine to give temporary relief; but the lasting and permanent cure is the Bahá'í Power, which unites all peoples and sets at naught their seeming differences.  This Power alone transforms the hearts, inspires the spirits, uplifts the minds, reveals the secrets of Love and unfurls the Banner of Divine Brotherhood.
From the "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 5 July 1913.
__________
The Power of the Cause
"The glad-tidings of the Kingdom of Abhá are effective over the hard stone and resuscitates the dried bones.  Like unto the down pouring of the vernal shower, they cause the growth of roses and hyacinths, jasmines and jonquils out of the black soil!  Although the inhabitants of that city are submerged in the sea of materialism and it may take some time before they are awakened, yet the Melody of the Kingdom of Abhá shall finally quicken them; the Cup of the Love of God will become full to overflowing, impart a wonderful exhilaration and allay the thirst of the thirsty ones."
Extract from Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Quoted in "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 11 July 1913.
__________
The basis of Bahá'í public teaching
"The basis of the Call [i.e., teaching and delivering addresses] must be the Oneness of the world of humanity, so that the religious fanaticism, sectarian bias, racial prejudice and political prejudice may be removed and all mankind may enter under the uni-coloured tent of the Oneness of the World of Humanity, the hearts may affiliate with each other, the souls be attracted, and the East and the West may embrace each other.  This must be the basis of your addresses in public meetings."
__________
How great movements have advanced
"All great movements have advanced through altruism, selflessness, and self-sacrifice, and not through the interchange of public opinion.  It is my hope that all of us may arise with the greatest power to serve this most important Cause (Universal Peace) and become the means of the welfare of the world of humanity."
Extracts from Tablets by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Quoted in "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 12 July 1913.
__________
Concerning temporal and eternal sovereignty
"Know thou, verily, I say unto thee that the conditions of this mortal world, even if it be the kingship of the whole expanse of this globe, is ephemeral.  It is an illusion.  It is ended in nothing; neither does it contain any results, nor, in the estimation of God, is it equal to the wing of a mosquito.
"Where are the kings and the queens?  Where are the palaces and their mistresses?  Where are the imperial thrones and jewelled crowns?  Where are the mighty rulers of Persia, Greece and Rome?  Verily, their palaces are in ruin and desolation, their thrones
page 253
destroyed, and their crowns thrown to the dust.
"But the signs of any one of the maidservants of God who arose in the diffusion of the Fragrances of God, serving the Kingdom of God, summoning the people to the Word of God, are widely spread eternally and handed down through centuries and cycles; her dawn is ever luminous; her star always shining; her flag continually flying; her station divinely glorified; her crown scintillating; her message living; her fame immortal; her voice resonant, her spirit in the apex of the Kingdom and her effulgence in the horizon of the Realm of Might.
"I beg of God to make thee one of these maid-servants."
Extract from Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Quoted in "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 14 July 1913.
__________
The superlative degree of success and prosperity
"O ye believers of God!  Supplicate and entreat at the Threshold of the Almighty to confirm you in the diffusion of the Fragrances of Holiness which are wafting from the direction of the Garden of God.  Blow ye over all creation like the breezes of the early morn, and impart ye freshness and verdancy, through the Power of Truth, upon the flowers, sweet hyacinths and the roses of the garden of existence.  This is the quintessence of meeting and the superlative degree of success and prosperity-for it causes the attainment of man to the Kingdom of Abhá, attracts him to the Sacred Court of His Highness the Almighty, and suffers him to reach the Sublime Presence of the Powerful and Omnipotent Lord."
Extract from Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Quoted in Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 21 July 1913.
___________
Attracting souls to the Kingdom of Abhá
"If thou desirest to be confirmed in the service of the Kingdom of God, live in accord with the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, and that is:  real love for the world of humanity and the utmost of kindness for the believers of God.  This real love, like unto the magnetic power, attracts the Divine confirmations."
"If a soul calls the people to the Kingdom of God according to the Principles of Bahá'u'lláh, there will be many listeners.  First one must teach by deeds; then speak The Word!  First one must become thirsty; then the salubrious water be offered.  No matter how delicious the water is, one who is not thirsty will not enjoy it.  Therefore, make ye an effort so that the people may become thirsty; then cause them to quaff from the Divine Chalice."
Extract from Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Quoted in "Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb", 24 July 1913.
The Editors


IV:15, 12 December 1913
page 256
The most important work
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a little group of Americans in Paris.
I have planted the Seeds in America.  You must nurture them and care for them.  If you do this, they will yield an abundant harvest. ...
You must arise with superhuman strength to spread the teachings for the Cause is GREAT; and whosoever shall arise in this Day to TEACH, know that he will be assisted by the Divine Concourse.  This is not the day of silence!  It is the day of the Proclamation of the Kingdom!  It is not the day of rest.  We must, ACT, ACT, ACT!


IV:15, 12 December 1913
page 258
Exhortation
O people!  The Doors of the Kingdom are opened; the Sun of Truth is shining upon the world; the Fountains of Life are flowing; the Daysprings of Mercy have appeared; the Greatest and Most Glorious Light is now manifest to illuminate the hearts of men.
Wake up and hear the Voice of God calling from all parts of the Supreme World-"Come unto Me, O ye children of men; come unto Me, O ye who are thirsty, and drink from this sweet Water which is descending in torrents upon all parts of the globe."
Now is the time!  Now is the Accepted Time!
Look ye at the time of Christ:  had the people realized that the Holy Spirit of Good was speaking to them through His Divine Mouth, they would not have waited three centuries before accepting Him.
And now is it meet for you that you are sleeping upon the beds of idleness and neglect, while the FATHER, whose coming Christ foretold, has come among us, and opened the Greatest Door of Bounteous Gifts and Divine Favours?
Let us not be like those in past centuries, who were deaf to His Call, and blind to His Beauty; but let us try and open our eyes, that we may see Him; and open our ears that we may hear Him; and cleanse our hearts that He may come and abide in our temples.
These days are the days of Faith and Deeds-not the days of words and lip service:  Let us arise from the sleep of negligence, and realize what a great feast is prepared for us; first eating thereof ourselves, then giving unto others who are thirsting for the Water of Knowledge, and hungering for the Bread of Life.
These Great Days are swiftly passing; and once gone they can never be recalled.  So, while the Rays of the Sun of Truth are still shining and the Center of the Covenant of God is manifest, let us go forth to work.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:16, 31 December 1913
page 267
"Let the new follow the new!"
A presentation of "The Covenant of God" as the only Source of Divine Knowledge to mankind, and the necessity of turning to the "Point" of its Manifestation in this "New Day".
Charles Mason Remey
In contacting with the Bahá'ís in various parts of the country, one realizes that there is a point which the friends must understand thoroughly themselves before they can really teach the Cause, confirm others in the faith and bring them to the realization of the New Covenant, and its Centre who is now upon earth in the person of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This point is:  that the Bahá'í Cause is The Covenant of God, not merely one of many phases of Universal Truth (as some say), but that The Covenant of Abhá is The Truth-the only Living Truth today!
__________
Another point is regarding the "Oneness and the Singleness" of God.  For years our teachers have been proclaiming and explaining that part of the teaching concerning the Oneness of God's Revelation to mankind and with evident and good results, too, for it attracts souls and confirms them in the truth of their own past religion, whichever it may be.  The truth of the Divine inspiration of each and all of the Holy Messengers, the founders of the world's religions, is most acceptable to the minds of men, for through the light of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh people are now seeing all of the Divine Revelations of the past to be as parts in the foundation of the one great spiritual whole, the completed structure which they now find realized in this, the latest and greatest of God's Revelations to the world-the Bahá'í Revelation.
When one sees the foundation of a house being laid, the functions of its various parts are not apparent; but when the superstructure is completed and one sees the entire building as designed by the architect, then he understands that each part of the foundation has a relation with every other part of the edifice, each being an organic, or necessary, part of the whole.  So it is with religion.  One can only understand the Revelations of the past, and their relation one with another, as he comes into the knowledge of the Bahá'í Revelation, for in the Bahá'í Cause all past religions are explained and completed.  One sees that all Revelations come from one source-which is "The Word of God"; all are parts of the One Great Cause of God, established down through the ages in the hearts of men, the present-day Bahá'í Revelation being the completion of the plan of the Great Divine Architect, for the Spiritual Unity, quickening and solidarity of all religions-the Kingdom of God upon earth.
Thus, briefly, do we understand the Oneness of God's Truth.
Now there is the second part of the teaching in question, namely:  The Singleness of God.  This phase we are now realizing and understanding to a greater degree than ever before, through the spiritual awakening caused by the presence in our midst of The Centre of The Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, during his recent travels in America.
We understand that the Manifestation of the "Word of God" to the world (through which, and through which only, man becomes spiritually quickened and knows God) is One Spirit and is ever single in its manifestations to humanity.  That is to say:  That the one "Word of God"-which is not a creation of God, but an emanation from His Infinitude-manifests successively and singly through the various chosen prophets or Divine Mouthpieces sent to the people of the world.
Thus the "Word of God" in its Singleness manifested through Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, the Báb-the "first point" of the new cycle-and Bahá'u'lláh.
And now the fruit and the Power of the Spirit of the Word of God, as revealed in
page 268
Bahá'u'lláh is manifest to all the world through the life of servitude to humanity of The Centre of The Covenant-he who calls himself 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is The Centre from which the spiritual effulgence (which appeared in these "latter days" in the blessed person of Bahá'u'lláh) is now being reflected to the world.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's word is The Truth; his teaching differentiates between error and Truth.  He is the Unique Centre of guidance and illumination for all mankind.1
__________
By virtue of The Singleness of God, "the Word" is manifest through but one chosen individual at a time.  As the phenomenal sun in the heavens is but one sun, though it appears each day at a different point upon the horizon, so is the Sun of Truth-which is "The Word of God"-one and the same throughout all time, notwithstanding that its points of appearance are successively many.  The foundation and the Cause of God in the world today is this same Spiritual Sun shining in its Singleness, its rays going forth to the people of the whole earth from a new point, and this point is the revelation of God's New Covenant upon earth.
Although the phenomenal sun has shone throughout the ages of the past, yet in order that we may be warmed and lighted by its rays, we must turn to it in its position in the heavens of today.  It shone in the past for the world of the past.  It shines today for the people of today!  If the people of today refuse the sun's light and energy, shutting themselves off from its light, saying that the light and energy given off from the sun in seasons past is all they desire, they would be in manifest physical loss.  They would die!  In like manner are those in manifest spiritual loss who cling to "the letter" and to the memories of the light of the spiritual days of the past and who refuse to recognize "The Word of God" manifest in this day; for as it was in ages past, so it is in this day, the Divine manifestation of The Day is the unique source of spiritual life in the world.  Therefore, it is evident that the Manifestation of this day is the only source of spiritual life for this day and dispensation, which is that of God's Kingdom upon earth.
The physical world receives from the physical sun each day sufficient physical force and energy to sustain it until the coming of the next day, when a fresh supply is given.  In like manner, the outpouring of Divine energy, force and life proceeds from the Sun of "The Word of God".  With each Manifestation a supply of spiritual energy and force is given sufficient for the needs of that day, or dispensation.  Then with the completion of that epoch and the advent of a new day of revelation, the former revelations are found to have become exhausted and are insufficient for the needs of the people, for if the people do not turn to the light of the new Manifestation, they find themselves in manifest loss.  They become as spiritually dead souls, because the spiritual sources of the past, having fulfilled their mission, have become exhausted and are no longer sources of light for humanity; nay, rather, that same light is again manifest in the world, but now is shining from a new dawning-point, for "The Word of God" is Single and no longer shines from the dawning-points of former cycles.
Thus, Moses in His age, was the only source of guidance to the people, but with the coming of Jesus the Christ, a new day dawned; for when God manifested through Jesus, the day of Moses ended.  Those who loved the Divine Light of the teachings of Moses were attracted to Jesus and believed in Him for in Him they found the same Divine Light of God which formerly had existed in Moses.  Upon the other hand, those in whom the spirit of Moses had not penetrated, those who saw only "the letter" or the external side of His teachings, those who refused to look toward the new point of Revelation which was in Jesus-were entirely cut off from the source of Divine Light.  They cut themselves off from the Christ and became spiritually dead because they refused the living Truth, "The Word of God", the Christ as manifested in Jesus, and they were in darkness.
In like manner, in this day there are those who say, "What need have we for The New Covenant of Abhá?  Have we not Jesus?  We want no other!"  Indeed these people are in great loss, for they cling to "the letter" of the teachings of the Christian dispensation and not to the Divine Light which emanated from Christ's Holy Person.
page 269
In this, the day of The New Covenant, the real Christians are those who have within their souls the love and the light of Christ, and when they hear the Bahá'í Message, they respond to the Call of the New Covenant, for they see and recognize the New Covenant to be the return of the same Christ, "The Word of God", which has ever been the One Light of the world throughout all ages.  Those in whose souls the love of God does not exist are as spiritually dead, they being Christians in name only.  Christ said: "My sheep shall know my voice."  Those who really are of Him in spirit know and recognize His voice, for in them is living the Truth of Christ.  The people who cling to the outer forms of the dispensation of Jesus, and who refuse the Light of God in its new point of manifestation, these, like the Jews of old who rejected Christ, are in great loss.
__________
The Revelation of Jesus was for His own dispensation-that of "The Son".  But now the apostolic age is finished and completed, and a new Revelation has appeared.  Now, the Revelation of Jesus is no longer the Point of guidance to the world as it was in the past, for now the same Christ, which was in Jesus, is again manifest in the Bahá'í Revelation, and those who desire the light, must now turn to God in His New Manifestation.  Christ said, "I have many things to tell you, but ye cannot bear them now."  This is the time for us to know those things.  Now we are in the Day of "The Word" manifesting as THE FATHER, The Father of whom "The Son" and all the Prophets testified, and promised.  If we refuse the Father, we also refuse the Son, and all of the prophets.  We are then in total darkness, for we are refusing the Revelation of the present day and dispensation, which is the end of the Revelations of the past and the beginning of a new order of things upon earth.
In the parable of "The Lord of the Vineyard" (Matt. 21:33) Christ spoke of the prophets of God who were rejected by the world.  He spoke of the coming of "The Son" who would be rejected and slain.  (Here Jesus was prophesying of His own rejection by the world and of His crucifixion.)  Then Jesus speaks of this "Latter day" coming, saying:  "When the Lord, therefore, of the vineyard cometh, what will He do unto those husbandmen?"  "They say unto him, He will miserably destroy those wicked men and will let out His vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall render Him the fruit in their seasons."  This is one of the holy prophecies wherein is promised the coming of the Mighty Manifestation of God to the Earth, and the establishment of His Kingdom triumphant upon earth.
__________
The physical seasons of the year are symbolic or typical of the seasons or phases of a dispensation of "The Word of God".
In the springtime, physical life is poured out upon the earth, and all things in which there is life awake to a greater and more active physical life, while new plants and shrubs spring up upon all sides out from the hitherto sterile and lifeless earth.  Shortly comes the time of fruition, and summer is at hand; then the decline of the physical forces as autumn arrives.  With the winter coldness comes a cessation of physical activities and much disintegration and death in the vegetable world, while those trees, shrubs, etc., in which life remains are not productive of fruits as they were in the springtime and summer.  Then again comes the springtime and with the coming of the warm sun and rain those trees and plants in which physical life exists, manifest new life-stretching out their branches and putting forth new leaves to receive the life-giving rays of light proceeding from the sun, now returned with all of its former life-giving power and strength.
Upon the other hand, those dead trees and shrubs, in which life has become extinct, and which but a short time before, outwardly appeared to be as perfect as those in which there was life, under these new conditions of springtime, disintegrate and decay with great rapidity.
Thus the dead and the living trees and shrubs stand side by side throughout the winter, and the casual observer sees them as being equal until the coming of springtime and then the outward differentiation takes place.
In like manner is the coming of the springtime of the dispensation of God's Truth upon earth.  Through the shining forth of the Spiritual Sun of Truth-which is "The Word of God" manifested in The Temple of Chosen Man-the people of the world, as they turn to the point of Revelation, are quickened with Divine Life and bring forth in their lives the fruits of God's Kingdom; then in turn those souls sow the spiritual seeds in the hearts of others, quickening the souls of spiritually dead humanity with a new spiritual life.
Then, as time goes on, creed, form and dogma dominate and the spirit of the religion
page 270
becomes exhausted, the people grow cold in faith; religion becomes material instead of spiritual in proportion as the temporal power of its institution increases.  This is the winter season of a religious dispensation; a time of spiritual famine in the land!  Then arrives another Springtime of Spirituality.  The Sun of Truth again appears in its Singleness from another dawning-point upon the spiritual horizon, and a new Divine day, or dispensation, is assured in the One, same, Single and Eternal Word of God again going forth to humanity from a new point of Divine Manifestation.  God's Message in its Oneness and Singleness is again given to all peoples great and small.  His Word creates Divine susceptibilities and quickens souls hitherto dead, while those in whom the love of God exists, spring into new life, for they are those who are of Him, and in whose hearts abides His love; while other souls apparently as good, and often from the world's standpoint apparently better, do not respond.  Those who do not respond, have no life in them; they remain in a condition of spiritual death which is one of Divine darkness or winter, and even the revealed Truth of the past avails them nothing.  The world soon sees such souls in manifest loss, for even in this world are the spiritually alive and the spiritually dead souls differentiated one from another.  There is but One Source of Divine Light.  It is a single source.
Humanity has no choice of dawning-points.  There is but One in each age.  God appoints and prescribes the way.  Man can accept and he may reject or refuse and thus cut himself off!  Sacred history proves this point.  For example:  when God's Word was manifested in Jesus the Christ, it was the best of the people, from the world's standpoint, who refused Him; while those who were of no worldly account accepted Him and became the pillars of His cause.  Theirs was the Divine blessing, and we find mention made of them down through the ages, while the worldly great of those days are in disfavor or entirely forgotten, because they preferred the former to those present-day Revelations, and thus became entirely deprived of the Truth.
Another important point is that in springtime the dead trees and plants in which there is no life are cleared away and consigned to the fire.  So is the coming of a new day of Revelation: the people who are spiritually alive, are given more life, while all of the dead religions and philosophies, like dead wood, must be discarded.  If this is not done, the past teachings will become a hindrance and a stumbling block to the growth of the New Cause, for were this year's tree held within the confines of the dimensions of its growth of last year, it could not expand nor grow.  It must be free to develop the life within it to manifest without restriction.
So it is with the newly quickened souls in each Divine dispensation.  They must detach themselves absolutely from all the philosophies, creeds and theologies of the past, so that the Spirit of God working and developing in their souls may grow according to the wisdom and laws of God, and not fear the scars and wounds of the stifling effects of human limitations.
__________
There are two aspects to every Divine Revelation:  (1) The purely spiritual Light or Divine teaching.  This is ever one and the same, eternal and unchangeable.  (2) The commands, laws and ordinances laid upon the people by the Manifestation.  These are unchangeable during each dispensation, but end with the close of the dispensation and the beginning of a new dispensation,
Each Manifestation has manifested the one eternal and single Truth, and each has applied that Truth to the world according to commands, laws and ordinances always commensurate with the conditions of humanity to which He ministered.  The spiritual welfare of the people in each age has depended upon their discarding all past ordinances, and teachings of former dispensations (save those which may have been required or reiterated by the Manifestation of the day), and by adhering only and wholly to His commands.
The seed takes root in the earth which is disintegrated from the hard, stony substances of the earth's surface.  A seed will not grow when embedded in a perfect and beautiful stone.  The stone must first sacrifice its condition of hardness and mineral perfection and become as dust before the seed will grow therein.
So it is with the seed of the Word of God.  When this seed is offered to one of a hard heart, it does not take root-no, like the seed of the plant it grows only in prepared soil.  This soil it finds in the souls of those who through sorrow and tribulation have been crushed and broken and who, like soft, rich earth, are penetrable and can absorb the water of the spiritual life which is The Love of God.  There are those who have forsaken human aspirations and desire God, and are
page 271
glad to free themselves from the hard and cold condition of humanity.  These seek only the life-giving teachings of the living Truth.  Stones offer no sustenance to growing plants-rather, in a stony garden only weeds will grow.
Bahá'u'lláh wrote:  "In this day he who seeks the Light of the Sun of Truth must free his mind from the tales of the past, must adorn his head with the Crown of Severance, and his Temple with the robe of virtue.  Then shall he arrive at the ocean of Oneness and enter the Presence of Singleness.  The heart must become free from the fire of superstitions, that it may receive the light of Assurance, and that it may perceive the Glory of God."
Bahá'ís must carry out this command implicitly and be severed from all and everything of the past-things both good and bad-everything.  The established forms of the past, though good and profitable in their own days, are in this day detrimental to spiritual growth; unless these be ordered by the New Covenant, the ordinances of the New Covenant being perfectly adapted to the conditions of this new age.
When a community is fed upon foods which do not contain the living nourishment necessary to sustain life, or when the community is given impure water to drink-sickness and disease break out.  In like manner, when in a spiritual assembly of friends, teachings other than those of the New Covenant are taught, a spiritual sickness falls upon that assemblage, and the people fail to attain to divine confirmation, and cease to attract people to the Kingdom.
We must all understand that with the coming of the New Covenant all teachings of the past ARE PAST, and that in this new Day of God only that which is revealed by the Supreme Pen, Bahá'u'lláh, and that which issues from The Centre of The Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, is spiritual food for the people and is to be taught.
The teachings and institutions of the past Revelations were necessary in their days, and in those days were spiritual food for the people; but now all is changed.  A new age has come and with it new and living spiritual food in great abundance.  The Centre of The Covenant is now supplying all the world with the living food and drink of the Kingdom of God.
__________
In the strata of the earth we find the fossil remains of the vegetation of past ages.  These were once luscious and afforded good food for animals and man, but now who of us would eat these stony remains?
If we would thus differentiate between living and dead physical foods which have to do with the nourishment and life of the physical body, how much more careful ought we to be in choosing for our souls the living spiritual food of Divine Revelation of the New Covenant, pure and free from the dead teachings of the past, from which (like the fossils in the crust of the earth) the spirit of life has departed, leaving only the outer form or shell.
The coming of spring does not put life into the dead fossils, neither does the Manifestation of God have to do with the theologies and creeds of the past.  Like the vegetable fossils, the religious forms of the past must be discarded.
__________
I recall, some years ago, attending a free religious session at which a young Bahá'í teacher just returned home to America from India, had been asked to proclaim the Bahá'í Message.  A large number of people were gathered together and our young friend gave a most beautiful address, explaining the Holy Cause successively from the view-points of each of the great religions of the past, and explaining how, in this day, the same "Word of God" which had created the religions of the past, each in its own day, was again manifest in the world creating the great universal religion which is God's Kingdom upon earth.  He gave a comprehensive talk.  It contained food for spiritual thought, and it gladdened and attracted the hearts of the people.  Whereupon as soon as he had finished speaking the person presiding over the meeting, in a very delightful, pleasant and friendly manner, called the attention of the audience to the fact that the platform of those meetings stood for all teachings past as well as present, and thereupon she asked one who was present, to speak, a teacher of the most ancient of this world's philosophical systems.
This person arose and in a manner, which apparently seemed in sympathy with the Bahá'í address, quietly and persistently loaded the minds of the audience with so much of his ancient theology, that the effect of the Bahá'í address was quite counteracted, and the audience left the place in a confused state of mind.
Although at various times Bahá'í teachers spoke from that platform, there were few re-
page 274
sults of a lasting nature, and all because those who upheld the platform insisted always in mixing with the Truth of The New Covenant the old forms and teachings of the past.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá commands that nothing but reality be taught.  There is but one reality in the world today and that is the New Covenant.  As one travels through the various Bahá'í Assemblies it is clear to see that in those centres where the people have clung exclusively to the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, shutting out from the meetings the very mention of all else, in those places there has been growth and fruition, fragrance and spirituality, because the people have been nourished upon the pure life-giving spiritual food of "The Word of God", and consequently have grown in the grace of the Kingdom.
The Centre of The Covenant is the Divine physician to the world besides whom there is none other.  That which proceeds from him is the Word of God, and is to be obeyed.  If it is not obeyed souls suffer; they deprive themselves of the bounty and blessings of God.
Every command of The Centre of The Covenant is to be obeyed implicitly.  If anyone fails to follow, he deprives himself and is in manifest spiritual loss.
Now, in this day, it has been revealed by The Centre of The Covenant that the Message of the New Covenant is to be proclaimed and taught to the world.  Of late this command has flowed frequently from the pen of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
All true Bahá'ís must now arise to obey this call.  Those who arise have the promise of the confirmations of heaven.  If they do not arise, the blessings will pass from them to others whom God will raise up to do His work.
'Abdu'l-Bahá assures us that this is the day for sowing the spiritual seed of God's Word in the hearts of the people, so let us all arise to do the bidding of The Centre of God's Covenant, to spread the glad-tidings of the coming of the Messiah and the establishment of His Kingdom among men.
Humbly yours in the service of The Centre of The Covenant.
Charles Mason Remey.


IV:16, 31 December 1913
page 273
A word picture of the "old" world
Look thou with seeing eyes at the world about thee and at the inhabitants thereof.  Upon the stage of this immense theatre, most spectacular plays are being enacted.  On one side thereof thou wilt see the victorious and the vanquished legions of profit and loss.  On the other side thou wilt observe the waves of the sea of folly rising and falling.  Cries are being raised on every side and the agonies of revolution, revolt and unrest reach unto the ears of progressive men.  There is a tremendous strike and clash between capital and labour, and the war between the aristocrats and democrats is carried on relentlessly with bow and arrow, sword and javelin.  The phalanxes of a great army are drawn in battle array, each division taking its position.  Armed troops and artillery are to be found in every part of the field.  The flash of the swords of enmity blind the eyes from even the most remote distance, the lightning effect of breast-plate and lance and the sparkle of the bucklers of hatred light up the night and bewilder the sight.  In short:  strife, battle, slaughter and war are prepared in organized perfection.
On the other hand thou wilt hear that from every house strains of music are raised, and confusing melodies of harp, lyre, cymbal and flute are heard, and mad revellers are dancing to the tunes, while they are inebriated with the wine of vanishing pleasures.  In one place thou wilt behold the wanton and soiled decorations, and in another the flimsy shows of the gilded class of creatures.  On the one hand is to be seen the embellishment and luxury made possible through illicit wealth, and on the other hand, the ravishing of this mortal world of its beautiful appearance.
From different parts are to be heard sighs of anguish, lamentations of poverty, cries of agony and misery,-and the calls for succour have reached to the gate of heaven.  One hears the weeping of the hopeless, the appeals of the oppressed, the trembling murmurs of the helpless and the harrowing wails of the ship-wrecked in the sea of persecution.  The heat of the conflagration of separation spreads on all sides, the fire of longing is raging with great intensity and the tongues of the flames of calamity leap forth in every direction.  Here one sees the oppression of kings and the thoughtlessness of cabinet ministers; there one sees conflict on the battle field of thoughts and ideals by ambitious generals, statesmen and administrators of the nations and countries.  They consult, scheme, plot and exchange views; they organize fallacious and superfluous companies and make false the established values; and thus do they lay and destroy the foundation of their political careers.
In short:  when thou observest these things with the eye of reality, thou wilt see that the outcome, result and fruit of all these theatrical performances are mirages and their sweetness is bitter poison.  A few days the earth shall roll on its axis, and these fleeting visions will be completely forgotten.
When thou shuttest thine eyes to this dark world and lookest upward and heavenward, thou wilt see light upon light stretching from eternity to eternity.  The reality of the mysteries will be revealed.  Happy is the pure soul who does not attach himself to the transient conditions and comforts, but rather seeks to attach himself to the purity, nobility and splendour of the world which endures.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
From Tablet revealed at Ramleh, Egypt, September 1913.


IV:16, 31 December 1913
page 274
"The modern social religion"
Regarding this publication, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, says:
To Mr Horace Holley, author of the Bahá'í work, The Modern Social Religion.
HE IS GOD!
O thou son of the Kingdom!
A copy of the book written by thee and forwarded to this spot was received.  The friends are engaged in reading it.  They praise and commend your book most highly and appreciatively, God willing, it will be translated and I will likewise read it.  Thank thou God that thou art confirmed and assisted; thy aim is to render service to the Kingdom of Abhá, and thy abject is the promotion of the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Although the glory and greatness of this service is not known for the present, but in future ages it shall assume most great importance and will attract the attention of the most great scholars.  Therefore, strive more and more as much as thou canst in this service, so that it may become the cause of thy everlasting glory and in the Kingdom of Abhá thou mayst shine like unto a star.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:17, 19 January 1914
page 286
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Prof. F. K. Cheyne of Oxford, England
In answer to the letter of Prof. Cheyne, [dated 23 October 1913.  Star of the West, VI:17, pp. 287, 290.] 'Abdu'l-Bahá revealed a Tablet, from which we are permitted to quote the following:
"O thou, my spiritual philosopher!
"Thy letter was received.  In reality its contents were eloquent, for it was an evidence of thy literary fairness and of thy investigation of Reality. ...  There were many Doctors
page 287
amongst the Jews, but they were all earthly, but St Paul became heavenly because he could fly upwards.  In his own time no one duly recognized him; nay, rather, he spent his days amidst difficulties and contempt.  Afterwards it became known that he was not an earthly bird, he was a celestial one; he was not a natural philosopher, but a divine philosopher.
"It is likewise my hope that in the future the East and the West may become conscious that thou wert a divine philosopher and a herald to the Kingdom. ...  Thy respected wife in reality deserves the utmost consideration. ...  Praise be to God that she is also thy co-worker and co-partner in the perfection of the Kingdom."
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:18, 7 February 1914
page 299
Faith-knowledge-prayer-obedience
From The Bahai Revelation by Thornton Chase.
Faith in God is not intellectual yielding to argument through being convinced that certain statements are correct, but it is rather from a hunger of the soul, a knowledge of personal helplessness and the perception of a possible Mighty Helpfulness.  Faith cannot rely on any man, but in God only; the required help must come from a higher power than man.  The soul is craving that which does not pertain to humanity in itself.  The latent spark of divine longing is awaking to seek its promise, and it turns, heavenward for the dawn of hope.  It is looking for its Father, God.
Therefore, it is necessary that man shall have some knowledge of God, and for this he must turn toward the "Face" of God.  "Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice; have mercy also upon me, and answer me.  When thou saidst: 'Seek ye my face'; my heart said unto thee, 'Thy face, Lord, will I seek.'" (Ps. 27:8.)  His "Face" is the revelation of Himself in the realm of existence, where man dwells.  All the existence declares God and teaches of Him, but the heart-knowledge, the living knowledge, comes through His Incarnate Word, the human Manifestation of His Will.  Therefore, man must seek and find the Manifestation of God, believe in Him, accept His Word, obey His Commands, and follow Him in the pathway of sacrifice.  The Manifestation of God may be always known, because He provides the kind of help which the seeking soul requires, heart-help, spirit-help, creating help.
Man is a praying creature.  When he finds himself in need, as he does from the moment of his birth, he strives by all means at his command to "pray" for help.  All through his life he seeks aid from others; he is always in need, always begging for assistance.  When he is awakened through any means to the hunger and helplessness of his soul, he hesitates not to pray to God, and, whatever may be thought of the action and working of prayer, it causes man to turn toward God and make it possible for God to answer him.  Prayer changes his attitude from self-ward to God-ward.
If he prays for things that pertain to his worldly affairs, his spirit is not turned toward God, but toward himself.  His prayer must
page 300
be "in the Name of God", that is, in accord with the divine Word.  The Name of the Manifestation of God signifies divine attributes; therefore, to ask "in His Name" means according to his nature and instructions, which are the nature and instructions of God.  No prayer is prayer to God unless it be in God's way, according to His Word, and with a sincere desire for His Will to be done regardless of the personal will.  Prayer, in its essence, is the abandonment of the personal will in favour of the Will of God.  And such prayer God answers, because it is in agreement with His law and can be answered.
God asks man to pray to Him.  He has given freely everything for the necessities of human life.  He has filled the lands and waters with foods and taught man how to cultivate and use them; He has given the forests and all materials for shelter, the cotton and the wool, and enabled man to mould them for his comfort; He has given the reasoning faculties that man may progress in material welfare and exercise the ethical and moral knowledge offered to him; He has given conceptions of beauty that man may seek for more than the physical dimensions of existence; and He has implanted the perception of higher possibilities and a desire for eternal destinies, that man may turn his face toward the Infinite.
All of these have been without the asking, but for the greater, spiritual things.  God tells man to pray that in so doing he may recognize his need, prove the reality of his desire, and put himself into the only attitude in which he can receive.  One must face forward and hold out his hand if he would have the gift; he must meet the donor part way; otherwise there is no real gift.  He who is in need will pray.  He who hesitates to supplicate God for His most valuable treasures is standing in the station of pride, or has not awakened to their worth and his own need. ...
God demands obedience.  It is not for man to question God's commands.  A little thought shows that all the ordinances of God, expressed by His Manifestation, are for the uplifting and good of man; how then can he question the methods revealed from the same Source?  The Scriptures throughout lay stress upon obedience as of the utmost importance in the sight of God, and he who would attain the higher blessings should welcome the opportunities to obey.  Everything in existence is under law, and all things obey freely, except man, who has been granted ability to disobey even God, and to obey himself.  Man is always a servant; he obeys something; how much better for him to serve the Wise One, the True One, the Beautiful One, instead of his own ignorance and greed!  "Know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?" (Romans 6:16.)
The whole sin and consequent degradation of the Jewish people was their disobedience to God.  He called them again and again to be His people.  "Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people; and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well with you." (Jer. 7:23.)  "Obey, I beseech thee, the voice of the Lord, which I speak unto thee; so shall it be well unto thee, and thy soul shall live." (Jer. 38:20.) ...
Obedience, then, is to the Manifestation of God, in whatever age he may appear.
The Voice of God, speaking through Bahá'u'lláh [in this Millennial Age], says:  "O Son of Existence  Keep My Commands for love of Me, and deny thyself thine own desires if thou wishest My Pleasure."  "O Son of Man!  Neglect not My Laws if thou lovest My Beauty, and forget not My Counsels if thou art hopeful to attain My Will."


VI:18, 7 February 1914
page 300
The mysteries of prayer
From Sacred Mysteries by Mírzá Asadu'lláh.
One of the commandments that exists in every religion is prayer.
What is the benefit of prayer that man should stand or kneel three or five times a day and read or chant certain words?
We answer, there is no doubt that the ordinances and precepts of God are for the purpose of promoting humanity to a higher station.  Therefore, the benefit of praying must be something which elevates man to a lofty and spiritual station, and to set him free from the prison of this immortal world of nature.
In explaining this subject, we cannot but hold to the Utterances of God, which descended through the tongues of His Mouthpieces and Prophets:
God says:  "The act of praying is a pillar of religion."  That is, religion is likened
page 301
unto a tent, and the act of prayer unto the pillar thereof.  If the pillar falls down, the whole tent will drop!  In another place, He says, "Prayer is like the sight of the eyes in the Cause of God."  Also, "If the prayer of the sincere believer is accepted and answered, verily, all the rest of his acts and deeds will be accepted; and if his prayers are not accepted, verily, all the rest of his acts will be disapproved and rejected."
These Divine ordinances are like the remedies and medicines which the skilful doctor gives to the patient (the sick).  Consequently, it is better for the patient to simply obey the physician, use the medicine, in order to recover from his sickness.
Now, the Divine Doctor, God, knows the sicknesses of the spirit of humanity, which is imprisoned in this material body.  The ordinances and precepts [given through His Mouthpieces and Prophets] are the remedies for the sicknesses and one of the ordinances is-"to pray".
God says:  "Prayer prevents the human being froth disapproved and foul actions."  That is to say, the remedy, which delivers the man
page 302
from the foul acts disapproved by the human intellect and caused by passion and satanic desires, is-praying to God.  That is, if he continues to pray, be will overcome these evil habits!
That is why His Holiness, the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh], in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, commands everyone to pray.
Therefore, it is made evident that the first benefit is derived by the one who offers the prayer.  This will save him from committing foul acts and from pursuing lustful desires.  And it is certain that by leaving or abandoning the disapproved habits, the human soul is elevated to a holy and lofty station, and it is saved from the prison of the world of nature.
__________
Another question:  When praying, is it necessary to follow forms and customs laid down, or will it suffice to turn the attention of only the heart toward God?
Let it be known, first, that the commands for prayer are those of God, therefore, no one has authority to object or question why these forms are commanded, because God alone is cognizant of the mysteries contained within the ordinances; and, second, that the precepts and commands appearing in the Heavenly Books ought to be followed exactly as they are given, inasmuch as they are for certain purposes in accord with wisdom.
To illustrate:  A physician gives medicine to his patient and prescribes that he shall take the medicine at certain fixed hours.  If the patient should take that medicine all at once it would undoubtedly harm him, and perhaps cause other illnesses.  This would be the fault of the patient, as he had not strictly followed the orders of the doctor.  The Divine Commandments are likened to those of a physician, as they are for the healing of spiritual sicknesses.  The servants of God should follow the Commandments as they are written in the Book, so that they may gain the desired result and be protected from injuries.
There is no doubt that the essence of prayer is the turning one's heart under all circumstances toward God.  The great importance of turning the heart toward God, being understood, why should special material actions be necessary?  If prayer in its essence consists of the approaching God with the heart, why should it be needful to mention Him with the tongue?
The answer is as follows:  The aim, the intention of turning the heart, the tongue, the limbs, the members of the body toward God in worship is this:  that the prayer of the man to God shall be with his whole being, and that all of his members shall take part in the act of worship.  His heart should turn to God; his tongue should mention His Name; his limbs should bend in humbleness and his whole body should show obedience and servitude.  Thus, the light of prayer may shine through the lamp of his whole soul, spirit, intellect and body; not that the heart alone shall be enlightened with the light of prayer but that every part of the man shall share in that illumination.
If the spirit approaches the Presence of God and the body is not partaker therein, it is as though one should worship in dreams while his body were asleep.  If, however, the body acts in prayer, while the spirit is directed elsewhere, it would be like the movements of a child without thought, and thus aimless.  But when the spirit, heart, tongue and all the members unite in worshipping God, then it will be as a perfect man performing an important act with reason and intellect.
Consequently, the first principle of prayer is the turning of one's heart to God.  Second-the united and harmonious action of all the parts and members.
__________
Let it be known that, in each cycle, the Holy Being of the Manifestation is the reality of prayer, inasmuch as he is the clear Mirror reflecting the Supreme God.  The "First Point," the Báb (May my soul be a sacrifice to him!) said:  "Prayer, in its prime reality, is a name for the Manifestation of God."  For example:  In the cycle of his holiness, Jesus Christ, he was the real prayer:  In the time of Muhammad, he was the reality of prayer:  In the great Day of "Him-whom-God-Shall-Manifest," the Blessed Perfection is the perfection of prayer.
__________
Therefore, it is seen that one of the doors, through which one may enter the Kingdom, and attain the meeting of God, is prayer, but it should be offered exactly according to the rules laid down in the heavenly Books.  Today the firm ones in the Cause of God and His Covenant must thank God and give glory to Him that they have been awakened from the sleep of negligence.  They have heard the call to the Real Prayer from the blessed tongue of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, have arisen to render service
page 303
to the Cause of God, and have endeavoured to promulgate his Verses widely.
Now, in thanksgiving for this great mercy, we must strive to offer the real prayer, rather than merely the literal one.  We must realize the true meaning thereof; that is-we should clothe ourselves with the attributes of the Blessed Perfection and become adorned with the divine qualities of His Mystery and The Centre of His Covenant, that we may be of the few who are "chosen", and not merely of the many who are "called".


VI:18, 7 February 1914
page 303
"Why pray?"
From a Tablet revealed by "The Centre of the Covenant", 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Know thou verily these Divine Teachings are heavenly and spiritual.  They penetrate in the heart as the penetration of the heat of the sun, the outpouring of clouds and the blowing of vernal winds at morning-time upon the trees.  When the lights (of these Teachings) arose, they became spread, just as the shining dawn spreads upon the horizons.  These wonderful traces shall surely appear throughout all regions and their lights will shine forth during centuries and ages forevermore.
As to thy question:  "Why pray?  What is the wisdom thereof?  For God has established everything and executes the affairs after the best order, and He ordains everything according to a becoming measure and puts things in their (proper) places with the greatest propriety and perfection-therefore, what is the wisdom in beseeching and supplicating and stating one's wants and seeking help?"
Know thou, verily, it is becoming of a weak one to supplicate to the Strong One, and it behoveth a seeker of bounty to beseech the Glorious Bountiful One.  When one supplicates to his Lord, turns unto Him and seeks Bounty from His Ocean, this supplication is by itself a light to his heart, an illumination to his sight, a life to his soul and an exaltation for his being.
Therefore, during thy supplication to God and thy reciting, "Thy Name is my healing"-consider how thine heart is cheered up, thy soul delighted by the spirit of the Love of God, and thy mind becomes attracted to the Kingdom of God!  By these attractions, one's ability and capacity increase.  When the vessel is widened the water increaseth, and when the thirst grows the bounty of the cloud becomes agreeable to the taste of man.  This is the mystery of supplication and the wisdom of stating one's wants (i. e., praying).


VI:18, 7 February 1914
page 303
The mystery of fasting
From Sacred Mysteries by Mírzá Asadu'lláh.
Know thou that Fasting is a command given in all the Holy Books in all times.
The outward appearance thereof is restraining the self from that which is prohibited in the Books.
Special times are appointed and particular forms are ordained by every religion.  The Zoroastrians have certain forms, the Jews have others; the Christians, the Muslims, each differ in their forms, and the Bahá'ís have forms of fasting differing from all former religions.  These apparent or outward differences were according to the exigencies of the times when given.
The outward fruit of fasting is the preservation of the material health through the purifying of the body once a year.  The inward fruits pertain to the other states of existence.
In the world of soul its fruit is the sanctifying of the soul from the animal qualities and clothing it with the intellectual attributes, thereby releasing the soul from the lower human nature.
In the world of mind, it is the process of filtering, sifting out the dust and taints and dross of the self, and soaring to the Spiritual and Divine Kingdoms.
In the world of spirit, it is the longing, the aspiring to the stations of Divinity, and attaining to the meeting of God in both this world and those to come after death.
Thus one of the doors, through which one may attain to the meeting of God and entrance into His Kingdom, is fasting; but success depends upon following the forms prescribed in the Heavenly Book.
__________
Another important point is this:  Whoever, in this day, is firm and steadfast in The Covenant of the Blessed Perfection and keeps
page 306
himself from turning to aught else save The Centre of His Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, is of those who fast.  Therefore, it is incumbent that man shall adorn himself with the attributes of his highness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and shall follow his example in dealing with the people of the world.  He must consider the benefits of others rather than his own.  He must consider the promotion of the Word of God, and the spreading of His Fragrances, even as the material gain of business, the cause of wealth and the capital of his prosperity.
__________
Nothing, after prayer, will cause the development of the spirit, save fasting.  The "First Point", the Báb, ordained for all the people to fast until they should reach the age of forty-two, but the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh] said:  "We love fasting!  Unless the people become old and weak, they should fast."  Thus the limit for fasting was appointed.  One should begin to observe the fast from the age of fifteen, and continue the observance of it until the body may become too weak to do so without injury.  His Holiness, the Blessed Perfection, used to fast throughout the set time every year.
In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas the rules for fasting are as follows:  Eating and drinking should cease before the rising of the sun and until the setting thereof.  The traveller, the sick, pregnant women and nursing mothers are free from this obligation.
__________
In Mark, 9:7-29, is related the story of the afflicted child who was brought to Jesus by the disciples after their vain efforts to cast out from him the spirit which tormented him and of his being healed by Jesus, who said, in reply to a question from the disciples, that:  "This kind can come forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting."
Thus Jesus taught that fasting and praying give strength to the spirit of man, so that it may become enabled to heal the different violent and strong sicknesses which possess him.
__________
The results and fruits of these acts are innumerable, but the few that have been mentioned are the principal ones.  We ask the Merciful Lord that this blessed act may become a cause of quenching the fires of lustfulness, animosity and hatred.
Peace be upon him who follows and carries out the Commands revealed in the Heavenly Books!


IV:18, 7 February 1914
page 304
"He is the worshipped one of all!"
"Regarding the phrase 'He is God!' written above the Tablets.  By this Word is intended that no one hath any access to the Invisible Essence.  The way is barred and the road is impassable.  In this world all men must turn their faces toward 'Him-whom-God-shall-Manifest'.  He is the Dawning-place of Divinity and the Manifestation of Deity.  He is the Ultimate Goal, the Adored One of all and the Worshipped One of all.  Otherwise, whatever flashes through the mind is not that Essence of essences and Reality of realities; nay, rather it is pure imagination woven by man-consequently, it returns finally to the realm of suppositions and conjectures."
'Abdu'l-Bahá


IV:18, 7 February 1914
page 305
The divine wisdom in fasting
From table talks by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, by Mrs Corinne True.
Question:  What Divine wisdom is there in fasting?
Answer:  The Divine wisdom in fasting is manifold.  Among them is this:  As during those days [i.e. the period of fasting which the followers afterward, observe] the Manifestation of the Sun of Reality, through Divine inspiration, is engaged in the descent [revealing] of Verses, the instituting of Divine Law and the arrangement of teachings, through excessive occupation and intense attraction there remains no condition or time for eating and drinking.  For example, when his holiness Moses went to Mount Tur (Sinai) and there engaged in instituting the Law of God, he fasted forty days.  For the purpose of awakening and admonishing the people of Israel, fasting was enjoined upon them.
Likewise, his holiness Christ, in the beginning of instituting the Spiritual Law, the systematizing of the teachings and the arrangement of counsels, for forty days abstained from eating and drinking.  In the beginning the disciples and Christians fasted.  Later the assemblages of the chief Christians changed fasting into lenten observances.
Likewise the Qur'án having descended in the month Ramadan, fasting during that month became a duty.
In like manner his holiness the Supreme [the Báb], in the beginning of the Manifestation, through the excessive effect of descending Verses, passed days in which his nourishment was reduced to tea only.
Likewise, the Blessed Beauty [Bahá'u'lláh], when busy with instituting the Divine Teachings and during the days when the Verses [the Word of God] descended continuously, through the great effect of the Verses and the throbbing of the heart, took no food except the least amount.
The purpose is this:  In order to follow the Divine Manifestations and for the purpose of admonition and the commemoration of their state, it became incumbent upon the people to fast during those days.  For every sincere soul who has a beloved longs to experience that state in which his beloved is.  If his beloved is in a state of sorrow, he desires sorrow; if in a state of joy, he desires joy; if in a state of rest, he desires rest; if in a state of trouble, he desires trouble.
Now, since in this Millennial Day, his holiness the Supreme [the Báb] fasted many days, and the Blessed Beauty [Bahá'u'lláh] took but little food or drink, it becomes necessary that the friends should follow that example.  For thus saith He in the Tablet of Visitation:  "They, the believers, have followed that which they were commanded, for love of Thee."
This is one wisdom of the wisdoms of fasting.
The second wisdom is this:  Fasting is the cause of awakening man.  The heart becomes tender and the spirituality of man increases.  This is produced by the fact that man's thoughts will be confined to the commemoration of God, and through this awakening and stimulation surely ideal advancements follow.
Third wisdom:  Fasting is of two kinds, material and spiritual.  The material fasting is abstaining from food or drink, that is, from the appetites of the body.  But spiritual, idea:  fasting is this, that man abstain from selfish passions, from negligence and from satanic animal traits.  Therefore, material fasting is a token of the spiritual fasting.  That is:  "O God! as 1 am fasting from the appetites of the body and not occupied with eating and drinking, even so purify and make holy my heart and my life from aught else save Thy Love, and protect and preserve my soul from self-passions and animal traits.  Thus may the spirit associate with the Fragrances of Holiness and fast from everything else save Thy mention."


IV:19, 2 March 1914
pages 316-317
A glimpse of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl at Ramleh
Isabel Fraser
A glimpse into the last days of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, as I saw him at Ramleh, a suburb of Alexandria, Egypt, last autumn, may be of interest.
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá settled at Ramleh, he desired to have his old friend, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, near him.  To do so he rented the upper part of a two-story house set in a garden of date palms.  To have provided a more pretentious place would not have been at all in accordance with Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl's modest habits.  Here he lived alone.  At first, 'Abdu'l-Bahá secured a cook who was to act as personal caretaker, for Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl's health was failing and he needed such an attendant.
But sick or well, the old philosopher was a hermit.  He loved his circle of friends, and he also loved his hours of solitude and contemplation.  He was not used to having anybody constantly around administering to what he regarded as merely trivial needs; but he soon discovered a way to compromise with the unaccustomed situation.  One day when 'Abdu'l-Bahá called, he found his venerable friend waiting upon the servant and treating him as though he were an honoured guest.  Seeing that this was only an added burden to Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, he had the man dismissed.
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl's quarters resembled an unkempt library.  There were books on every conceivable shelf and table, and even the floor was littered with volumes and papers.  His place was a rendezvous for the learned shaykhs and Muslim mullás of the ancient city of Alexandria; for he was looked upon as an authority on history, Persian literature, higher criticism and comparative religions.
His favourite outing was a visit to the house of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's secretaries which was just around the corner, and which beside housing the secretaries, was used as a guest-house for visiting pilgrims to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Here he would sit on the spacious veranda; the news would go forth and soon a little group would be gathered about him.  On Friday afternoons a body of young native students from Alexandria came to him for lessons in the Sacred Books of Bahá'u'lláh.
To the many who were accorded the rare privilege of meeting this man of letters, both during his stay in America and on their pilgrimages to the East, I need not speak of his peculiar personal charm.  With all his book learning he was not at all "bookish".  Gifted with one of those rare minds that explore all the channels of life with equal grace and facility-the same dignity and impressiveness with which he discussed a verse of the Qur'án with the learned shaykhs, he put into the meeting of some sojourning American; often finishing with a personal pleasantry, for he was a ready humorist and made his guests instantly at ease.  He had the placidness of a child and the air of one who was never in a hurry and had plenty of time to make radiantly happy the place where God had placed him.
That was his attitude toward the world; but in the presence of The Centre of The Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá with head bowed and downcast eyes, he became the essence of humility.  Even his voice, in answer to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's questions, became low and subdued.  Never have I seen such a perfect and instantaneous agreement of mind and body to express humility.
One day when I was at his house, there were about twenty shaykhs who had come over from Alexandria to visit him.  One who seemed to be the leader was a very learned and gorgeously attired young shaykh, who said with some pride that he had been educated in the oldest university in the world.  He was the editor of a magazine in Alexandria and had come to interview Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, who for more than an hour had been listened to with absorbed attention.  His talk was interspersed with an occasional jest and his sharp eye would glance from one face to another to see if his point was understood.  One might imagine the learned devotees in the early Christian era listening like this to the eloquence of St. Paul.
Suddenly 'Abdu'l-Bahá appeared.  Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl faced the door, the rest of us had our backs to it and did not see him; there was a moment of silence and Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl stood with his head bowed, his whole attitude changed.  He immediately became the most humble and respectful of servitors.  Then quickly arranging a chair for 'Abdu'l-Bahá he told him in a low voice, in answer to his questions, the subject under discussion.
'Abdu'l-Bahá continued the subject, which was on the independent search for reality, further emphasizing the great necessity of investigating truth with a mind unbiased by theology or the limitations of other minds.
At the house of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl he was an almost daily visitor.  Whenever inquiry was made for 'Abbás Effendi, as the natives all call 'Abdu'l-Bahá the conjecture invariably was that he was probably to be found either at the house of Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl or in the rose garden, opposite, dictating Tablets.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's, love for his old friend, who for years bad suffered banishment, imprisonment and persecution for his faith, was remarked by all.  He said of him one day:  "Such men as Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl already belong to the Divine Concourse.  All his interests are centred on the spiritual horizon rather than on this transitory phantasmagoria.  All his efforts are turned toward the heavenly kingdom.  He has no other thought.  Such souls are aided by heavenly confirmations."
Chicago, 26 February 1914.


IV:19, 2 March 1914
page 317
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl
Ishti'ál Ibn-Kalántar [nom de plume of Dr 'Alí-Qulí Khán]
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl was born in 1844, in Gulpáyagán, a small Persian town, founded by Humá, the daughter of Darius I.  The family to which his parents belonged was one of the most distinguished of that city, and, even to the present time, is well known for learning and knowledge.  His father, Mírzá Ridá, was one of the most noted Shí'ite doctors of religion in Persia; he died in 1871, at the age of seventy.
In the prime of youth, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl travelled to Isfahán and 'Iráq, with the object of perfecting his studies.  Even in his boyhood he was noted for intelligence, sound memory, and diligence in discovering subtle scientific points, to such an extent that these qualities seemed to the people supernatural.
Before he was twenty-two years of age, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl had perfected himself in the branches of Arabic learning, such as grammar, rhetoric, etymology and composition; although Arabic is a foreign language to Persians.  In accordance with the wishes of his father, he also acquired a perfect knowledge of Islamic theology and laws.  At the same time he studied mathematics, algebra, arithmetic, geometry, and astronomy according to the Ptolemian system.  He also mastered the Aristotelian as well as the rational Islamic philosophy.
In October 1873, he left the town of Gulpáyagán and went to Tihrán, the capital of Persia, where he took up his residence.  A short time after his arrival, he was appointed the superintendent and professor of one of the oldest first class Arabic Universities of Tihrán, named the "School of Hakím-Háshim."  There, students of different sciences gathered around him and attended his lectures.
In 1875 he became acquainted with a merchant named Áqá 'Abdu'l-Karím of Isfahán, an adherent of the Bahá'í Religion.  As this merchant found Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl sagacious and free from prejudice, he invited him to investigate his religion.  Although Áqá 'Abdu'l-Karím had no schooling, yet he possessed a shrewd, acute mind and an excellent character.  He arranged interviews for Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl with learned Bahá'í teachers, such as his holiness the great Nabíl, entitled "The Learned One of Qá'im", the late Hájí Muhammad-Ismá'íl of Káshán, entitled "Dhabíh" [sacrificed], Áqá Mírzá Haydar-'Alí of Ardistán, and others.  They continued the controversy and religious and scientific debate during eight months.  Finally, in September 1876, after this ample discussion and tedious argument, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, finding himself unable to refute and resist the proofs and demonstrations of the Bahá'ís, and esteeming the evidences of this Faith stronger than the proofs of other religions, acknowledged and embraced the truth of the Religion of Bahá'u'lláh, and became a convert to it.
When Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl acknowledged the truth of this religion, and, on account of the straightforwardness for which he was noted, could not conceal his belief, he openly propounded proofs and arguments of the truth of Bahai-ism, in his lectures to the students.  Consequently, enemies who were jealous of him, always waiting to accomplish his downfall, availed themselves of this opportunity to speak of him in the presence of the clergy and prominent statesmen of Tihrán.  The clergy denounced him, and, in December of the same year, he was arrested and putt in chains by the command of Prince Kámrán Mírzá, entitled "Náyib's-Sultánih" (Prince Regent), the third son of the late Násiri'd-Dín Sháh, who was then the governor of Tihrán, Gílán and Mázindarán.  This imprisonment lasted about five months.  As a result of this imprisonment he lost all the property which he had inherited
page 318
from his father.  At the end of five months, he and other Bahá'ís imprisoned with him on account of their faith, were released, owing to the efforts of the late Hájí Mírzá Husayn Khán, entitled Mushíru'd-Dawlih, who was then Minister of War.  Upon his release, the clergy of Tihrán tried their utmost to persuade him to verbally acknowledge Islám, and not to openly uphold the truth of the Bahá'í Religion.  To this he would not agree, and patiently endured the most violent persecutions and afflictions rather than accede to the clergy and statesmen.  Afterward he gained his living by means of his pen, and diligently laboured in spreading the Bahá'í Religion.
In AH 1300 (AD 1882), came a great historical calamity.  Large numbers of Bahá'ís were arrested in various Persian cities, for now this religion had become very prevalent throughout Persia and the Caucasus.  A considerable number of the nobility, comprising Muslims, Jews, Zoroastrians, Nusayrís, et al., had embraced it with the utmost sincerity, and even did not recant when in danger of their lives.  Consequently the fire of envy and hatred flamed anew in the clergy and statesmen of Tihrán, who considered themselves defenders of the first-named religion.  They agreed with the Prince Kámrán Mírzá to persecute the Bahá'ís.  So they falsely accused and calumniated them before the Sháh.  Also in Rasht, Isfahán and Mázindarán, most of the clergy and statesmen determined to eradicate the Bahá'ís, and arrested a great number.  Among these were Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl who was arrested in Tihrán, along with a multitude of the Bahá'ís of prominence, merchants, traders, et al.  He was confined for about one month in the house of the Prince, and several controversial meetings and debates were held-in the presence of the Prince, concerning this Religion.
The opponents of the Bahá'ís, consisting principally of members of the royal family, religious doctors and statesmen, constantly accused them of sedition and plots.  Great efforts were made to alienate the mind of the Sháh from them and to persuade him to decree their suppression and slaughter.  But as they could not be charged with any violation of the laws of the Government,-the Sháh became convinced of their innocence, and would not consent to sentence them to death, but commanded them to be put in chains in the royal prison.  Thus Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl and a number of the stanch Bahá'ís were imprisoned in chains and fetters for twenty-two months, subject to rigorous distress and hardship.  During most of this time, nobody was allowed to see them.  Twenty-four of them were, for fourteen days, chained to two long, heavy chains in a dark underground dungeon.  Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl relates that for about six months they received daily news of the plots and intrigues of their enemies, and expected death at any moment, having entirely resigned themselves to the will of God.
After the lapse of twenty-two months, the falseness of the accusations of the enemy was proven to the Sháh, and he commanded that the prisoners should be set free.
Released from this rigorous imprisonment, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl took up his residence in the village of Qulhak, one of the well-known and delightful summer resorts of Tihrán, where he remained about seven months, engaged in lecturing and writing.  Again the Prince found an excuse for his arrest, a third time.  He was imprisoned for six months in the royal building named Utáqih Nizám (the military department), whence he was released 5 February 1886.
Far about thirty years, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl travelled in remote countries.  He journeyed northward through Persia, Turkey, the Caucasus, Tartary and Russia, as far as Moscow; eastward as far as the confines of China and Kash-Kar; to Syria and Egypt; and in 1901-1902 made a trip through Western Europe and America.  During his arduous travels, he everywhere secured a good name for himself and his countrymen; he consorted with the men of learning of different religions, nationalities and schools; and acquired a vast range of knowledge which it would have been impossible to attain without undertaking extensive and toilsome journeys.
In AH 1303 (AD 1886), he received the Tablet written by Bahá'u'lláh in AH 1300, in which he was commanded to travel for the purpose of teaching the Word of God; and during his distant journeys, undertaken in compliance with this Command, many holy Tablets were revealed in praise of his strength and fidelity to the Cause.
While travelling, he has written numerous books, being considered a standard writer in ancient and modern Persian, as well as in Arabic.  In 1892, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl wrote, in Samarqand, the book entitled Fasslu'l-Khitáb (Conclusive Proof), in answer to questions asked by Mírzá Haydar-'Alí of Tabríz, one of the learned
page 319
men of Ádharbáyján.  This book he wrote in the style of the doctors of theology, and in the introduction is given an account of the controversy in Samarqand between himself and Dr Ásátúriyán Márcárd, a Protestant teacher, in a meeting held by men of learning.
In 1898, he wrote the book of Fará'id in Persian, in compliance with the command of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  In this work, he answers the objections of Shaykh-'Abdu's-Salám, entitled Shaykhu'l-Islám (a Muslim pontiff) of Tiflís.1  The same year, he wrote the book of Durar'ul-Bahíyyih (The Brilliant Pearls), in Arabic, in answer to Dr Núri'd-Dín of India.
During the years 1901 and 1902, while sojourning in America, Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl wrote the Hujaja'l-Bahíyyih (The Bahá'í Proofs), which was translated into English by Ishti'ál Ibn-Kalántar, and published at that time.  This work is well known to the scholars and thinkers of the Western world.
As late as December 1911, he wrote a scholarly answer to an opponent of the Bahá'í Cause, known as Burháni Lámi' (The Brilliant Proof), which was published by The Centre of The Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, while in America.
His other epistles and pamphlets, which are scattered in all parts, are too numerous for mention in this article.
One of the theories originated by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl was the "Proof of Stability", in demonstrating the Essence of the Self-existent One.  This is one of the greatest and clearest logical arguments for proving the Divine validity of the religions and demonstrating the Essence of the Almighty.  By a single rational proof, it demonstrates both the existence of God and the truth of the true Prophets.  He first propounded this argument in the book of Fasslu'l-Kitáb, in 1892, and for the second time, in the book of Fará'id, in 1897.
He was the first one of the Bahá'ís who demonstrated by rational and logical arguments, that miracles are not sufficient to prove the truth of the Manifestations of God.  He was the first one who clearly explained the purpose of what was spoken by the Prophets, in the Holy Scriptures, as to the "words being sealed", to be opened at the "last days".2  He was also the first to explain that the great religions of the world which have changed and governed the conditions of society, are seven in number; and that the "seven heavens" is a term by which the Prophets have symbolized the Divine religions.  Before Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl propounded his theory, the point was not understood, for this number was not spoken of in the Divine Books and Tablets, nor in historical works.
He was the first one who demonstrated by rational proofs, why the Pagan religions are considered as polytheism, although they owe their origin to the Almighty, and acknowledge one God.  For if by worshipping images, people are to be considered as polytheists, the Greek Church and Roman Catholics must also be considered such, while they are in reality, the "people of the Book", and believers in Divine Unity and true Religion.
Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl had a wonderful genius in explaining subtle philosophical points, which skill was his speciality.  He himself thought that he received this gift as a fulfilment of the prayer which the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh] made for him in a Tablet written to Hájí Muhammad Kazím of Isfahán.  It is as follows:  "I beg of God to enable Fadl (Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl) to teach His Truth, and to unveil that which is hidden and treasured in His Knowledge, with wisdom and explanation.
Verily He is the Mighty, the Bestower!"


IV:18, 7 February 1914
page 321
[From "In memoriam" section]
Those who have passed through death, have a sphere of their own.  It is not removed from ours.  Their work-the work of the Kingdom-is ours; but it is sanctified from what we call time and place.  Those who have ascended have different attributes from those who are still on earth, yet, there is no real separation.
In prayer there is a mingling of station, a mingling of condition.  Pray for them, as they pray for you!  When you do not know it, and are in receptive attitude, they are able to make suggestions to you, if you are in difficulty.  This sometimes happens in sleep.  But there is no phenomenal intercourse!  That which seems like phenomenal intercourse has another explanation.
'Abdu'l-Bahá


V:1, 21 March 1914
page 3
"Today, divine powers reinforce the souls who are spreading the cause of God!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá's Message to the Bahá'ís throughout the world, delivered at the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh, 25 December 1913.
It is part of the Divine Wisdom that I should keep silent for a time!  All that was required of me, that is, to raise my voice in the churches, synagogues, conventions, and meetings,1 calling the attention of the people to the Kingdom of God and the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh-praise be to God! through the confirmation of the Blessed Perfection-is accomplished.  Now it is the turn of the believers of God.  Now I am ever expecting to hear the sweet voice of the friends raised and the watchword, "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!" reaching the ear of the heart and spirit.
Those souls who have become subservient to the will of God as manifested in the life and teachings of Bahá'u'lláh must know of a certainty that they attract unto themselves heavenly confirmation and assistance.  Now, existence upon the Sacred Threshold is the magnet whereby aid is attracted.  The more the believers humble themselves at the Divine Threshold, the more powerful and universal will be the descent of the Holy Spirit of new dedication upon them.  The more they strive to teach souls the greater will be their power of sanctification and attraction.
Today divine powers reinforce the souls who are spreading the Cause of God.  Whoever walks upon this highway is confirmed; those who appear now as dried plants will be changed into fruitful trees.  God's blessing will rest upon all who enlist in the service.  They are the flowers of the garden of Abhá-they must breathe forth their fragrance! ...  They are the trees planted by the sacred hand of Bahá'u'lláh in the orchard of the Kingdom.  He hath watered you with the rivers of His knowledge and hath protected you from winds and storms.
I hope that each one of you may become a tree laden with delicious fruits for the healing of the nations!


V:1, 21 March 1914
page 4
The feast of Naw-Rúz:  21 March
The Bahá'í New Year's Day
A talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Friday evening, 21 March 1913, at 14 rue Greuze, Paris.
Mons. Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney interpreting.
I am extremely glad to see you on this Naw-Rúz occasion.  This day is considered holy by the Persians. ...  From time immemorial this day has been consecrated for in this there is a symbol.
At this moment the sun appears at the meridian and the day and night are equal.  Until today the North Pole has been in darkness.  Today the sun appears on the horizon of the North Pole.  Today the sun rises and sets at the equator and the two hemispheres are equally illumined.  This sacred day, when the sun illumines equally the whole earth, is called the equinox, and the equinox is the symbol of the Manifestation of God.  The Sun of Truth rises on the horizon of Divine Mercy and sends forth its rays.  This day is consecrated to commemorate it.  It is the beginning of spring.  When the sun appears at the equinox, it causes a movement in all living things.  The mineral world is set in motion, plants begin to shoot, the desert is changed into a prairie, trees bud and every living thing responds, including the bodies of animals and men.
The rising of the sun at the equinox is the symbol of life, and likewise it is the symbol of the Divine Manifestations of God, for the rising of the Sun of Truth in the Heaven of Divine Bounty established the signal of Life for the world.  The human reality begins to live, our thoughts are transformed and our intelligence is quickened.  The Sun of Truth bestows Eternal Life, just as the solar sun is the cause of terrestrial life.
The day of the appearance of God's Manifestations on earth must be a sacred day when man must commemorate God in prayer and praise.  Among the ancient Persians this day was looked upon as the holy day of the year and on it hospitals and charitable institutions were founded.  Collections for the poor are made on this day and every effort is put forth so that it may not be allowed to pass without leaving some divine traces.  Throughout Persia one sees the historical traces of this sacred day by the many good works that have commemorated it.
__________
I am spending this New Year's day in Paris.  I hope for considerable results from this fact.
page 5
I hope that a powerful influence may remain in your hearts, signs of eternal joy and happiness that will illumine the lights of the Kingdom in this city.  May the breezes of the Holy Spirit breathe upon you that your intelligence may progress and your souls be joyful in God.  Thus will you become real and eternal beings, shining in the Divine Kingdom.


V:1, 21 March 1914
page 5
"Do not unloose your tongues save for conveying, the message!"
From a Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Now you must engage in the service of the Cause of God with the utmost firmness, steadfastness and resolution, and expend day and night in the promotion of the Religion of God.  Do not unloose your tongues save for conveying the Message!  Do not behold save the Kingdom of Abhá!  Wish for no other companion save the True One.  Do ye not desire other associate save turning thy face toward the Supreme Horizon.  Do ye not search for any other delicacy save the Heavenly Food, and do ye not hope for any other sweetness save the love of the Beauty of Abhá.
Praise be to God, that the Standard of Victory is unfurled over that region, and the fame of The Covenant has reached the ear of every wise and intelligent person.
Spiritual means are prepared.  The Merciful Table is spread and the Banquet and the Feast of the Lord is inexhaustible.  Now is the time of attraction and ecstasy!-so that region may become wholly illumined and that worthless dust be changed into fragrant musk.
I declare by the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh]-May my life be a sacrifice to His believers-that if the believers arise to act according to the good-pleasure of the Blessed Perfection, the lights will be revealed, the mysteries discovered, the veils rent asunder, the darkness dispelled, the verses of unity chanted, and the melodies of the spiritual music of the Glorious Lord sung!
SHOW YE AN EFFORT!  WORK UNCEASINGLY!  LABOUR DILIGENTLY;-so that the Everlasting Bounty be realized, Eternal Life be destined, and the nostrils be perfumed with the Holy Fragrances!


V:1, 21 March 1914
page 5
"Travel and spread far and wide the teachings of God!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá's instructions to Bahá'í teachers
"Thou must live in such a spiritual condition that thy very presence in the meetings may transform the audiences."
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs Stannard before her departure for India.
Consecrate all thy time to the service of the Kingdom of God and the propagation of its principles.  Let thine own supreme concern be the promotion of the Word of God.  Thou wilt ever be surrounded by the invisible angels of Confirmations and they will always come to thy assistance.  Whenever thou dost enter a meeting, raise thy voice and say:
"O ye believers of God!  This day is the day of your attraction!  This day is the day in which you must diffuse the Fragrances of God!  This day is the day that you must unfurl the Banner of the Kingdom of Abhá!  This day is the day of Peace and Concord!  This day is the day of the proclamation of the oneness of the world of humanity!  This day is the day of forgiveness avid leniency!  This day is the day of Truth and righteousness!  This day is the day of conciliation and beatitude!  This day is the day of awakening and enkindlement!  Waste not your precious time in fault-finding and back-biting.  Polish the surface of the mirrors of your hearts from the dross of human frailties.  If you live according to the standard of other communities, then what difference does there exist between you and them?  Bahá'u'lláh has summoned you to such a lofty summit the very thought of which is too dazzling a prospect!  He has not chosen you to be satisfied with water and clay!"
Thou must live in such a spiritual condition that thy very presence in the meetings may transform the audiences into the congregations of the elect and set aglow in their hearts the
page 6
fire of the Love of God.  Exalt thy ambition!  Universalize thy ideals!  Spread thy wings of compassion over all the regions of the globe.  If some people come to thee alone complaining against each other, don't listen to them, don't let them breathe the faults of others in thy presence.  Tell them:  "I have not come here to engage my time with these things.  I am not a judge.  I have come to summon the people to the Kingdom of Abhá, to call you to unity and accord, to raise the dead, make mindful those who are unaware, awaken those who are asleep, breathe new life into the mouldering hones and sound the trumpet of resurrection!  Friends!  It is high time for you to throw away these tales, these barren stories.  God is not pleased with them, humanity is not pleased with them.  Your time is too costly to be expended on these trifling events.  You are made in the image and likeness of God.  Your birthright is more valuable than all the treasures of the empires.  Arise with heart and soul and let not these golden days slip by without results!  This day is the day of the splendours of the Sun of Reality!  This day is the day of the Lord of the Kingdom!  This day is the day of the fulfilment of glorious promises!  This day is the day of joy and fragrance!"
Petty bickerings and jealousies make one lose all the traces of spirituality, ex-communicate a person from the divine company of the worthy ones, submerge one in the sea of phantasms, suffer one to become cold and pessimistic and throw him headlong into the depths of despair and hopelessness!  You must not listen to anyone speaking about another; because no sooner do you listen to one than you must listen to someone else, and thus the circle will be enlarged endlessly.  Therefore, say to them:  "O friends!  Let us come together, forget all our self-thoughts and be in one accord, and cry at the top of our voices, 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!'"
"This Call shall fill the East and the West, and will continue throughout ages and cycles!"
Extract from a Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
It is very acceptable and seasonable that thou hast taken this voyage.  The Apostles of His Holiness Christ were always travelling and calling the people to the Kingdom of God.  Consequently, walk thou in their footsteps.  Travel thou to every country and under all circumstances raise the Call of the Kingdom of God.  Mankind, like unto children, are satisfied with water and clay, and love to play with their play-things.  Their ambitions are very inferior.  Praise be to God! that thou hast a lofty ambition; therefore arise in calling the people to the Kingdom of God.
This Call shall fill the Fast and the West, and will continue throughout all ages and cycles.  It is endless.  That is why in this day, the wise and perceiving souls exalt the ideal and engage in heralding the Kingdom of God!"
"The progress of the Cause depends upon the energy and wisdom of the teachers"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mírzá 'Alí-Akbar on the eve of the latter's departure for Constantinople.
Thou hast been with me for a long time, and I have grown to love thee very much.  When I love people I do not tell them to their faces.  You know how much I love Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl and Hájí Mírzá Haydar 'Alí, but I have seldom told them to their faces.  I am sending thee away.  Thou art not alone.  The hosts of the Supreme Concourse are with thee.  They will assist thee and reinforce thee under all conditions.  Doctors tell me I must completely rest ...  When I hear good news from the believers, then my health is improved.  Now if thou longest to see me in good condition; go away and serve the Cause and instruct the souls.  The news of thy spiritual conquest will make me well.  Wherever thou goest, announce the wonderful Bahá'í greeting to the teachers of the Cause, and tell them on my behalf:
"The responsibility of the steady progress of the Cause depends upon you!  You are the physicians of the sick body of the world of humanity!  You must not stay anywhere for a long time.  Travel ye from land to land like the Apostles of Christ, and carry with you the glad-tidings of the kingdom of Abhá to the remotest corners of the earth!
"Why are ye silent?  SHOUT!  Why are ye sitting?  MOVE!  Why are ye quiet?  STIR!  This is not the day of rest and comfort:  Travel ye constantly, and spread far and wide the Teachings of God!  Like unto the stars arise
page 7
ye every day from a horizon.  Like unto the nightingales, sing every day from a different rose-bush.  Like unto the breeze, waft every morning from a garden.  Do not stay a long time anywhere.
"Let the world profit by your teachings and learn from your examples!  My health consists in the progress of the Cause, and the progress of the Cause depends upon the energy and wisdom of the teachers!"
"Speak with Moderation"
'Abdu'l-Bahá's instructions to Mr Charles Mason Remey on the eve of the latter's departure for Europe.
Through whichever country thou goest, speak thou with moderation.  Call the people to the oneness of the world of humanity; the dawn of the Sun of Reality from the horizon of Persia; the servitude of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and then explain the Centreship of The Covenant-and no more. ...  Speak in accordance with that which I used to speak in the meetings, i.e., speak with moderation."
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


V:1, 21 March 1914
page 7
Working in this manner shall bear fruit"
Extract from a Tablet to the Persian Bahá'ís, revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Consider how 'Abdu'l-Bahá forgot all thoughts and mentions and turned his face towards the countries and empires, cities and villages, mountains and deserts of the West.  Day and night he was engaged in teaching the Cause and conveying the Message.  The principle upon which his trip [throughout Europe and America] was directed was this verse:
"O God!  Make all my ideals and thoughts One Ideal and One Thought, and suffer me to attain to an eternal, unchangeable condition in Thy Service!"
He sought no rest, neither did he breathe one breath of comfort.  Notwithstanding the weakness of constitution, the infirmity of the body and the nervous fever, every night I was in a city, and each day among a community.  Although at times I could not speak one word before large audiences, I delivered lengthy addresses.  Working in this manner shall bear fruit.


V:1, 21 March 1914
page 10
One day, when 'Abdu'l-Bahá was very tired, he said to several young Bahá'ís who came to see him:  "My work is done.  The tree of my life has yielded its fruits.  I have set a fire in the world.  Your duty is to add to its flame.  My sons, it is now your turn.  The members of my bodily constitution are well-nigh disintegrated.  You are young, and your blood is pure; your intelligence is keen.  You can bear the difficulties of this life.  I would like to remain silent for some time, and listen to the incoming news of those who are endeavouring to spread the Fragrances of God.  How far shall they succeed?  How will they promote the Word of God?  How will they raise the melodies and sing the songs of 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!'?  Assuredly the Blessed Perfection is with such souls.  They shall see with their own eyes the Confirmations of Bahá'u'lláh; just as I saw them when addressing large gatherings in churches and temples.  I saw them hovering like the birds of paradise!"
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 11 December 1913.


V:2, 9 April 1914
page 19
"Once the principles of the Bahá'í Faith are known in India, it will spread like wildfire!"
Extracts from the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, dated Mount Carmel, January, 1914.
An Indian Muslim Prince, who is travelling in the Holy Land with a retinue of servants, called this afternoon on 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He was accompanied by the English Consul.  He asked many questions, to all of which 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave satisfactory answers.  He spoke with him in detail on the oneness of the world of humanity and the fundamental unity of all the religions.  He had heard of the Faith in India, and therefore was delighted to come to the source and see "the Man who has freed humanity from dead dogmas and spiritless doctrines."  He stayed for more than an hour, and when he left he carried with him the blessing of the spiritual contact, and was imbued with His love of mankind.
In the course of conversation, this Indian Prince invited 'Abdu'l-Bahá to visit that sect-beridden country and diffuse far and wide the fragrances of the teachings of universal love and fellowship.  "India needs these principles of tolerance and liberalism more than any other country in the world.  That thickly populated kingdom is a hot-bed of religious prejudices.  The sphere of their thoughts is very contracted, and although there are some acute thinkers and practical reformers in their midst, the mass of the community frown at any suggestions or rules which change in the slightest degree their mode of living.  The weight of immemorial customs has fallen on their necks like the rusty chains of ages, and while the corroding marks are imprinted on their emaciated bodies, they hug the chains more closely.  In order to gain the freedom of their limbs and the suppleness of their bodies, they must throw away these chains of superstitions and dogmas and fraternize cheerfully and joyfully with all the nations of the earth, irrespective of religion and race."
__________
After a silence, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The cohorts of the Kingdom of Abhá are engaged in uninterrupted conquest.  They are gaining victory after victory.  God willing, Mrs Stannard shall win many signal triumphs in India.  Once the Principles of the Bahá'í Faith are known in India, it will spread all over that country like wildfire. ...  Mrs Stannard has dedicated her life to the Cause.  She knows neither rest nor comfort.  She does not sit tranquilly for one moment.  Although she has a steady income, yet out of that she gives to the poor and the needy.  She entertains no other idea save the service of the Kingdom and the promotion of the Cause.  She is assisted by the Confirmations of God.  There are certain persons whose ambitions are lofty.  They are not satisfied with petty services and small things.  They do not soil their wings with water and clay.  Their highest aim is to adorn their inner beings with the infinite perfections of the celestial world.  Thus the most cherished desire of Mrs Stannard is to spend the remaining years of her life in the spread of the Cause and service to humanity."


V:2, 9 April 1914
page 25
"Thou shalt unfurl the standard of spirituality in the heavenly universe!"
It is several months since the New York Assembly was offered an audience room in the Parish House of St Mark's Episcopal church, this city, for Sunday afternoon meetings, with the entire freedom of the platform, limited only to constructive methods.
The Centre of the Covenant, His Holiness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was cabled to for counsel, and his cabled reply was:  "Accept invitation, Church Episcopal.  Hold Sunday afternoon meetings."  An immediate acceptance of this invitation followed.
Beautiful meetings are now held there every Sunday afternoon.
Following is a Tablet recently received by our brother Mr Kinney, through whom this invitation was most unexpectedly tendered to the New York Assembly, and who wrote (as well as cabled) of it to the presence of the Centre of the Covenant.  This Tablet is his reply:
To Mr Wafa Kinney, New York City.
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter was received and its contents perused with the utmost of attention.
Convey infinite love and kindness on my behalf to ... and say to him:  Praise be to God that He hath chosen thee from amongst the ministers so that thou may'st hearken to the call of the Kingdom of God, listen to the heavenly Melody, behold the Light of Reality, act according to the advices of His Holiness the Christ, promulgate the principles of Bahá'u'lláh, become the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity and be ordained as the high priest of the Church of the Kingdom.  All the ministers will be submerged under one of those periodic waves of the earth, leaving behind no name and no trace, but thou shalt unfurl the standard of spirituality in the heavenly universe of Heaven, extolling and magnifying the Lord of mankind with the music of the Kingdom.  Thank thou God that thou hast attained to this most great Bestowal.
In short, O thou my Mr Kinney.  O thou my spiritual child!  Whatever ... deems advisable concur with him and put in practice, and occupy your time with the diffusion of the Fragrances of God.  Announce the utmost kindness to thy respected wife and all the friends.
Up to the present time, as a result of this long journey to America, my constitution was in the utmost state of weakness and feebleness, consequently I could not carry the weight of correspondence.  As at the present writing the condition of my nerves is better and materially improved, therefore I am writing thee this epistle.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 23 February 1914, Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


V:3, 28 April 1914
page 35
The "Gloomy Night" and the "Day Of God"
A brief presentation of the Bahá'í message.
From The Bahá'í Proofs, by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl.
O people! when ye carefully consider the world, ye will perceive that all the nations of the ancient world have been totally incrusted by false worship of paganism and Sabeanism; the darkness of imaginations and fictitious ideas has prevailed in every region, and entangling beliefs and evil customs accumulated in every clime.  Inasmuch as the above-mentioned nations were ignorant of the meanings and original purposes of the texts revealed in the Heavenly Books, such as "ascent" and "descent", "return" and "restitution", "heaven" and "earth", "sun", "moon" and "stars", "resurrection", "death" and "life", and many similar words which were upon the lips of the prophets since the ancient days, and were uttered by the Tongues of God from the foundation of the world; and as they understood such words according to their literal sense; therefore these nations fell into the gulf of the fictitious beliefs of paganism.  Among these pagan notions were transmigration of souls, transformation of embodiments, worship of stars, animals and trees, services of genii, controlling spirits and other ruinous practises and pernicious beliefs,-which facts are evident to every informed historian, and to every student and archaeologist.
As the gloom of fictitious and superstitious beliefs prevailed in all parts of the world; as the clouds of ruinous practices, the dusk of pernicious actions, densely enwrapped all regions, and veils of suspicion hung upon every side; and as the earth was entirely covered by darkness upon darkness therefore the prophets-Peace be upon them!-have interpreted that long duration as the "gloomy night", and the time of its disappearance as the "bright morning", "the day when it shineth".
Moses
The Great Lord Moses the "Interlocutor", was the first one who arose in that dark and gloomy period and announced to the Jews the coming termination of that long night.  He proclaimed the advent of the glorious "Day of God".  He taught them the Unity of God; made known to them the way of worshipping God; implanted in their hearts the expectation of the arrival of the "Day of God", and explained to them the signs, symbols, tokens and wonders thereof.  So also in the past days, Abraham [sic. Zarathustra], who was entitled, Zoroaster, appeared in Persian regions and taught the Pársí nation the worship of the merciful God, abolishing idolatry from among them, announcing the coming of the "Hour", reminding them of the future Resurrection, explaining the signs and tokens thereof, and unveiling the appointed time.  Moreover, he clearly stated to them that, verily, the Sun of the promised Beauty should dawn from the horizon of the East, and that the blessed Sadrat would spring forth from a well-rooted tree of Persia.  But, as at that time the hours of gloomy night were still far from the dawning-place of Manifestation, the false imaginary beliefs and pernicious worship of paganism prevailed even among the Hebraic and Persian nations; thus the worship of God was mingled with fire-worship, and the kings of Judea and Ephraim associated with nations rooted in paganism, such as the Egyptians, Phoenicians, Assyrians, Chaldeans and Greeks, because the latter had assumed dominion over the lands of Palestine and the inhabitants thereof.  On this account the Hebrews were compelled to live under the laws of these governments, to obey their kings, adore their demons and worship their idols.  Yet, among them, the Jewish prophets, such as David, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel, Zechariah and others-Peace be upon them!-were, during fifteen hundred years, reminding the
page 36
people of the coming of the "Day of God", and reviving hopes in their hearts of the "Manifestation of God".  So these prophets were, in their cycles, as beaming stars which shone forth from the uttermost horizon of heaven; as lamps enkindled and aflame in the gloomy and obscure night.
Christ
In that way many generations passed, until the glorious Saviour arose and the brilliant star dawned from the horizon of Galilee.  Then the planet of the Son shone from among the posterity of Abraham, the melodies of the Gospels pealed forth and the descent of calamities upon the children of Israel drew nigh.  Our Lord Christ-Upon him is Glory and Grandeur!-arose and cried with loudest voice:
"Repent ye, for the Kingdom of God is at hand!"
"Awaken and be mindful!  The Hour of the Coming of the Kingdom of God approacheth!"
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God!"
"Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God!"
Likewise, during His lifetime, He was continually reminding them of the approach of the "promised Day", renewing and establishing the Signs of the Appearance of the Beauty of the Adored One, which had been prophesied by the prophets of Israel.
Christ declared that in "that Day" He will sit upon the right hand of His (the Father's) Throne; will be authorized to make His commands effective; will be established upon the Seat of His Glory, and become the Shepherd of His sheep, through His Permission.  He-Exalted is He!-heralded the approach of the Great "Hour", the Mighty Day of Resurrection, until He ascended to the Supreme Friend.  Then Apostles arose to spread His Cause and promote His Word, until all the European regions were illuminated by the lights of His Command, and became purified from the filth of paganism.
Muhammad
Six centuries elapsed after the departure of Christ, until the Beams of Dawn appeared from Arabian horizons and the shining of the Morning Light was transmitted from the direction of Hijáz.  The greatest signs of the "Hour" appeared and the mightiest tokens of the "Day of Judgement" became manifest.  Muhammad arose, crying out with the loudest call:  "The Sentence of God will surely come (to be executed); wherefore do not hasten it!"  This voice was heard from heaven:  "The time of their accounts hath drawn nigh unto the people, while they are turning away therefrom!"  He clearly stated that the "gloomy night" had expired and the dawning of the Sun of Truth from the Supreme Horizon was at hand.  Through the light of His word and the power of His prophethood He illumined great nations and multitudes, from the remotest parts of Africa to the distant East; peoples who knew nothing concerning Unity and had tasted no drop from the fountain of Oneness; those who had denied the Prophets and falsely accused the Chosen Ones.  The Word of Muhammad and His prophetic testimony drove them out of the darkness of paganism toward the Light of the Worship of God.  Thus they were turned from denial of Prophets to belief in the line of holy messengers from Adam to Jesus, the Spirit of God.
Muhammad announced to them the coming of the "Day of God", and made with them a covenant to expect the descent of the Spirit (Christ) from the Heaven of the command of God.  But He also clearly stated that the Precursor, who shall arise before His descent, to prepare the way before that "coming", will come forth from His (Muhammad's) posterity; that through the Spirit (Christ) God will fill the earth with equity after it had been filled with injustice, and illuminate all regions with justice after they had been darkened by tyranny.  Then He established books of traditions and prophecies, and filled pages with signs and tokens.
The Báb
The earth of enlightenment rolled around its axis for 1,260 years, until the "Hour" drew nigh and the appointed time arrived.  Then the Star of Guidance dawned, the Planet of Purity shone forth, the Fountains of Knowledge gushed out in one of the best lands of the Orient, and the Tree of Grace was ignited in the city of Shíráz, the chief town of the province of Fárs.  The Most Great Báb (Gate) arose, preaching to the multitudes and peoples, heralding again the expiration of the "gloomy night", foreshadowing and clearly declaring the coming of the great and dreadful "Day of God".  He raised this call betwixt
page 37
the Heaven and earth:  "Rejoice!  Rejoice!  The Morn of Guidance hath indeed appeared, the 'gloomy night' hath cleared away, and the Dawning of the Beauty of God, Abhá, is at hand!  The spring-time of the Return of the Realities of Regeneration hath come!"  All regions trembled with this most sweet call and the Resurrection appeared through the supreme Message.
Bahá'u'lláh
Then dawned the Sun of the Beauty of the Promised One; then rose and beamed the Orb of the Face of the Adored One.  The "Hour" arrived, the Resurrection came, the trumpet sounded and the dawn of the Manifestation shone forth.  Bahá'u'lláh (The Glory of God the Most Glorious) arose; the Beauty of the Supreme God appeared and called out with a Voice that filled all regions, causing the "seven strata of the earth" to tremble:
"Now the Promised God hath indeed come, the Beauty of the Adored One hath appeared, the appointed 'Day of God' hath dawned and His irrefutable and glorious Command hath arisen!  The Lord hath descended in the shadow of clouds; the earth is shining with the Light of the Face of its Lord, the Bestower; the Bridge is extended, the Book is appointed, the curtain is lifted and the veil is removed!  Showers of Verses have fallen, branches of Knowledge have put forth leaves and become flourishing in all directions!  The 'dead have arisen and the lifeless are resurrected!'"
The rivers of Knowledge and Enlightenment have flowed from His Supreme Pen and He hath broken the seal of the "Sealed Wine" with His Generous Fingers.  He hath explained in His Holy Tablets the realities of the Words of the Prophets, and hath disclosed in His precious Writings the meanings of the symbols of the Elect, until all the seals of the Prophets have been opened and the aims of the Messengers became unveiled to the possessors of pure hearts.  He instituted new laws which are destined to unite all nations and multitudes; issued a glorious Command which will bring together all religions and creeds, enjoined His Saints to love all nations and exhorted them to serve all the people of the world.  During His last days He wrote the Kitáb-i-'Ahd (The Book of the Covenant, Testament or Will) with His blessed Fingers, in which He clearly stated and appointed the "Centre of the Covenant", directing peoples to the Orb of the Universe.
The torrent of His Verses and the shower of His Graces abundantly poured down, until the time of Disappearance drew nigh, and the Sun of Truth was concealed in the veil of Absence.  The Lord ascended to the Supreme Court of His Might, and His blessed Identity was hidden in His invisible furthermost Essence.  This calamitous event and lamentable disaster happened on the 2nd of the month Dhi'l-Qa'dih, AH 1309, which corresponds to the 28 May AD 1892.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
When the Sun of Guidance was set and the rustle of the Sadratu'l-Muntahá1 hushed, then the Orb of the Covenant dawned and the "Moon" of the Testament appeared with the utmost brilliancy and effulgence.  The glorious "Branch extended from the Ancient Root", His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, arose to promote the Word of the King of the Day of Judgement, and now He is crying and heralding throughout all regions:
"The Judgement of God hath come; respond ye, respond ye unto the call of God!
"Hearken ye, hearken ye to the Melodies of God!  Inhale ye the Fragrances of God!"
"Be illumined, be illumined with the lights of the Face of Bahá'u'lláh!
The promises of the Prophets have already been fulfilled, the prophecies of the Messengers realized; the Day of Judgement hath cone, and mankind hath stood before the Lord of the creatures!"
__________
For this Day is no other than "the end of the ages"; no other than the illumination of the horizons of earth, both East and West, with the Lights of the Forgiving Lord; no other than the changing of darkness into light, and of sorrow into joy and gladness; whereby hearts are cheered, souls are tranquillized, eyes are consoled and breasts are dilated.
This is the Day of God!


V:3, 28 April 1914
page 38
[From Jam-e-Janisied, Calcutta, 28 March 1914]
A message to the sons of Mazda
New light in the world
Prof. E. C. Getsinger, PhD (Professor of Original Research and Physics), USA
America is considered to be the melting pot where all discoveries, theories, philosophies, religions and claims of any special sort, are put into the crucible of investigation and finally given their true value by the individual; for the American nation is composed of a people of independent thought,-the result of their splendid educational system.
Consequently, when an American student comes to these shores, it is a rather strange sensation for him to find that the educated classes-Pársís, Hindus and Muslims are settled in a state of satisfaction, non-seeking, non-searching, except in some prescribed channels, and aim at maintaining sacred traditions.  Any new light must pass a prescribed test founded upon old views.  With an American a new light stands upon its own merits regardless of preconceived ideas, and therein lies their success in getting at things.
It is rather strange, then, from an American viewpoint, that the Pársís, excepting a few, are entirely ignorant of a Persian Faith, which is of such vast moment to the Pársí community, and that in America they have accepted the Bahá'í faith by hundreds, and that it is the Americans who are spreading this Faith in all parts of the world.
And even those few Pársís who have heard or looked into the matter were oblivious to the possibilities of a spiritual force that lies underneath the outward momentum.
When the Americans heard of this Bahá'í Faith in 1898, they sent several delegations, one from New York, one from Chicago, and one from San Francisco, composed of from six to fourteen persons each, to visit the prison city of 'Akká [now in Israel] and investigate the truth of the matter from the lips of the prisoner himself, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  All reported favourably and the Bahá'í Faith has since spread in America by leaps and bounds, the numbers being beyond computation.
In Persia, the Bahá'ís are numbered by the thousands and represent Muslims, both Sunnís and Shí'ihs-Pársís, Jews and Christians.  Religious hatred is dissolved by pure love, and each respects the religion of the other; so that whole cities in Persia are of the Bahá'í Faith, and all this has happened by easy stages, without the sword of religious coercion, but by toleration and brotherly love.
That the Bahá'í Faith is of the greatest moment to the Pársí community can well be seen, for as soon as just one more step in Persia is made by this Faith, then the Pársís can remove his Sacred Fire back to its native home again, and worship in peace and safety, for religious toleration is one of the greatest Bahá'í Laws, and I am saying this as an American Bahá'í, who has intimately observed and known this Faith for the past sixteen years.  Liberty and fair-play is dear to every American even if the drama of injustice is played in foreign lands; but at the same time we also expect that those mostly interested (Pársís) in the establishment of righteousness in Persia, should bestir themselves a little.
About a year ago, a delegation or party, of Pársís went to Persia to observe the trend of safety for investment, etc., and not to study Bahá'í influences.  But upon returning they reported unfavourably on all points, except, that the only hope for Persia lies in the Bahá'í Faith and its spread among the Persians.  One of the party repeated this to me about two months ago.  And yet, if this is the Pársí's only hope, then why not lend more than a mere silent sympathy to that hope?  The Persian Muslims have laid down thousands of lives-this is common historical knowledge-in order that their country be redeemed, and by these sacrifices the Pársís also are benefited.
Why have not the Pársís also sent a delegation to Palestine to investigate the matter at its fountain head?  When the Americans did so it was only for truth's sake, and not because they have any other interests in the Pársí motherland.  The American Bahá'ís have established schools in Persia, have sent American teachers to those schools and to them are admitted the children of every religion.
Some of the greatest scholars, writers, statesmen, travellers and humanitarians of our day have written most favourably of the Bahá'í Faith and Faith, and volumes sufficient
page 39
to fill a library are already extant from the pens of those men and women, most of them, while not pronounced Bahá'ís, are able to see the great influence of the Bahá'í Faith upon the entire social and economic problems of this age.
When Prof. Edward G. Browne, of Cambridge, visited Bahá'u'lláh (the founder) in the prison city, 'Akká, in 1892, this scholar in his own subsequent book on the Bahá'í Faith, admits that the spiritual force that emanated from Bahá'u'lláh (Splendour of God), caused him to fall to his knees in His Presence, when Bahá'u'lláh spoke the words that have since rung around the earth:
"We desire but the good of the world and the happiness of the nations, that all nations shall become one in faith, and all men as brothers; that the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men shall be strengthened.  That diversity of religion shall cease and difference of races be annulled.  So it shall be.  These fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away and the 'Most Great Peace' shall come; and for this are we a prisoner and an exile."
Thus did the "Prisoner of 'Akká" speak on the fortieth year of his exile and imprisonment; and is there any hopeless tone in that speech after forty years of oppression and tyranny?
Among the vast number of authors and writers on the Bahá'í Faith, I will mention just a few, whose books lie before me:
Horace Holley, London, author of "The Modern Social Religion".  In that book, page 8, he says:
"Originating in Persia only a generation ago, the Movement has already penetrated far to the East and West, its followers numbering millions of men and women, who represent every religion, philosophy, race, class and colour.  It is the Bahá'í teaching which extends religion so as to include modern science, economic conditions and morality ... in terms of our social evolution."
This book and others are on sale in Bombay book shops.
The venerable Professor Vambery, one of the greatest scholars of modern times, honoured by Kings and Emperors, just a few weeks before his death wrote to 'Abdu'l-Bahá (the present leader), a long letter of sympathy and love, from which I give brief excerpts:
"I forward this humble petition to the sanctified and holy presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who is famous throughout the world and beloved by all mankind.  Although I have travelled through many countries and cities of Islám, yet have I never met so lofty a character and so exalted a personage as your Excellency, and I can hear witness that it is not possible to find such another ....  I am hoping that the ideals and accomplishments of your Excellency may be crowned with success.  Considering these results, every person is forced by necessity to enlist himself on the side of your Excellency and accept with joy the prospect of a fundamental basis for a Universal Religion of God ... and if God the Most High, confers long life, I will be able to serve you under all conditions.
(Signed) Vambery.
Professor Cheyne, of Oxford, England, wrote to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in these endearing terms:
23 October 1913.
My Beloved Friend and Guide:  I cannot forget your tender embrace when you were with me in my study.  It has been a constant source of strength in memory and I fully believe it was the will of God.  You help me constantly.  With reverential love in Abhá, in which my dear wife joins, I am, beloved friend and guide,
(Signed) F. K. Cheyne.
Published in the Star of the West, Chicago, USA.
Bernard Temple, (now Editor of The Sind Gazette, Karachi) read a paper before the Royal Society of Arts, London, "Persia and the Regeneration", which was published in that Society's journal, saying:
"Sometimes the world has had cause to regret its inattention.  Europe, at the present time (1910), is not showing itself regardful of the rise of the new religious movement, called 'Bahai-ism' of Persia. ...  Shí'ih and Sunní Muslims in large numbers have been converted.  In European Turkey, and more notably in Asiatic Turkey, they are increasing yearly.  I conversed with some in Baghdád.  In Egypt they are becoming numerous; also Morocco, Algeria, Tunis and Tripoli and the Northern Provinces of India.  I have met Bahá'ís in Bombay, Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar, Rawalpindi, Lahore, Delhi and Lucknow.  Converts from among the Sikhs of Amritsar, and the Brahmans of Benares; among the Buddhists of Sri Lanka, Burma and Thailand; amongst the Taoists of China and Shintoists of Japan.
"Many Persian Jews in Tihrán have become Bahá'ís and I have attended some of their meetings.  In Hamadan [about 370 km WSW of Tihrán], one of the oldest Jewish settlements in the world, at least a third of the Jewish community has openly gone over to the Movement.  No Christian missionary to the Jews in any part of the world can boast a triumph equal to this. ...  A more intellectual form of Bahai-ism has expanded into Europe, in Russia, Germany, France and England.  In Baku I found a large number; in London, Manchester, Liverpool, Edinburgh and Glasgow an appreciable number.  The United States of America promises to become a great western stronghold of Bahai-ism; also Quebec, Montreal and Toronto, in Canada.
"Before going further perhaps I ought to state that I am not a Bahá'í.
"All this world-wide spreading while the founders were behind prison walls!
"The followers of Bahá'u'lláh already include members of the ruling family of Persia-Viziers, Deputies; Governors of Provinces and several Mullás!"
page 41
The observations of Bernard Temple are first hand.  He is a renowned Orientalist and traveller.  No comments are necessary on his words.
S. A. Kapadia, Editor of The Wisdom of the East Series, in "The Splendour of God", says on page 2:
"Wherever Bahá'ís meet they meet on common ground, throwing aside all antagonisms of the past, they rejoice in the glad communion of the present ... Brotherhood among them is not merely a 'maybe', it is a visible fact.  Buddhists and Muslims, Hindus and Zoroastrians, Jews and Christians, sit at one board in amity, eat of one dish, and offer united thanksgiving to one Giver-the result of the light of 'The Glory of the God' (Bahá'u'lláh).
"Illumined by this light, men are no longer blinded by fear of one another, fear is utterly cast out by this light towards which Bahai-ism bids all men to turn.
"Visitors to 'Abdu'l-Bahá at his home in 'Akká, are of many tongues and many nations. ...  Many opposing people and professions eat at the table together and he himself waits upon his guests in sacred service to his fellowmen. ...  A light that cannot fail to rend asunder the veil of separation and enable man to see and love man regardless of nation, origin, colour, caste or creed.  This light of love shows man to man as he is."
This is a word for Bahai-ism by the Editors of a religious series, that prove them to be experts in discernment of the inner life of the individual religions, ancient and modern.
It a recent article in The Christian Commonwealth, London, and reprinted in the February number of The New Reformer, Madras, Mr George, G. Andre, F. G. S., writes:
"No religious Movement has touched the spiritual life of the modern world so closely as that which is
page 42
associated with the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh, and his son 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Persian, and its origin in the nineteenth century, in seventy years has spread all over the world.  It stands out among other Movements as the form of the renovating force in the spiritual life of the world.  We have in the Bahá'í teaching a regenerative force which may change the form of human society in a way and in a degree of which we can have in the present confused state of things, no adequate conception."
"The Bahá'í Revelation may be rightly described as the greatest religious Movement of recent times.  A Movement which reckons its martyrs by tens of thousand and the numbers of its adherents by millions.  The first impression made on one is that its name 'Bahá'í', is a suggestion of a purified form of Islám.  But though associated in its origin with the faith of Islám, as Christianity was with Judaism, yet it is a distinct and independent Movement-the answer to religious and social necessity.  That part which the Bahá'í Movement is destined to play in the spiritual life of the world, is to be a saviour of the Great Religions ...  A crisis has been reached in the religions of the world and men's hearts are failing them in fear.
"Bahá'u'lláh did not profess to found a new religion in the ordinary acceptance of the word, that is, an organized religious system adapted to the needs of a particular race of people, but to broaden the basis of each man's faith and to strengthen it.
"'The essence of all religions is the love of God, and to discover the way to the Kingdom one must travel upon it.  The people of Bahá must teach by their lives and manifest the light of God in their deeds,' says 'Abdu'l-Bahá."
The Christian Commonwealth is circulated in all parts of the world and has over a half-million readers.  Thus showing the wide circle of sympathy that is manifested from many sources for the Bahá'í Movement and its aims.  The foregoing from the pens of eminent men, and recognized as peers in their fields of labour, testifies that the Bahá'í Movement is practically a "world renovating" fact; that it is actually a "Millennium period" already on the ascendant; that it is a "Resurrection" of spirituality already on the wing; that it is a "day of Righteousness and judgement" already at hand.
Nothing with even a semblance to these principles has arisen nor gone forth out of Persia during 2,500 years, which in the least bears traces of Zoroastrian prophetic fulfilment as does the Bahá'í Revelation-already an established fact throughout the world, and acknowledged as such by the most distinguished men of affairs in all countries, regardless of their religious convictions.
In the face of these facts, is it not presumptuous on my part to call the attention of the Pársí community to an event, already history, which possibly might be "the long desired Millennium" of Sháh Bahrám and Soshans?
It is true, that the Pársí community is small and for its own self-preservation and protection, the Pársís must set about their community a certain conservatism, and look askance at new cults and philosophies.  But it must also remember that when we shut others out, we likewise shut ourselves in; and besides Bahai-ism is no cult, philosophy, nor new religion.  It is the religion of the prophets of Írán-as promised since ancient times and has come in our day to all who can believe these glad-tidings.
Neither American nor English Bahá'ís have any interest in the advancement of Persia toward a habitable country, aside from humanity.  But the Pársís have an interest that has slumbered for centuries in their hearts, and a hope that has never waned.  And now since the Persian Bahá'ís (statement of the delegation) have cleared away the lurking danger, and given the Pársís a light on the path, a new hope almost realized, is it then too much to ask you, my fellowmen in Mazda, to also form a delegation to investigate Bahai-ism and see what relationship it has to your own expectations of the "Resurrection of Righteousness"?
I have met some of your learned men-in fact, too learned-who have heard, have read, have formed opinions about it, but only from exterior sources, have judged a world Movement by the air bubbles churned by the struggle.
Consequently, should my humble suggestion of an investigating delegation be followed, then please do not make the same "top-heavy"; but look to the spirit in men's souls.  That is, those who can discern things wrought of God and His Spirit.
E. C. Getsinger.


V:5, 5 June 1914
page 65
"This Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is the first divine institute in America"
Through Dr Faríd, to the Secretaries of the Convention of Delegates for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, Charles Ioas and Gertrude Buikema, Chicago.
HE IS GOD!
O ye two candles of the Meeting of the Friends!
The secretary in the meeting of the spiritual ones must be shining as a candle, for he is the medium for communicating thoughts and the explanation of Mysteries.
Praise be to God that the Convention of the delegates for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was held in perfect order and that the members assembled in that spiritual meeting with radiant faces, heavenly hearts, merciful spirits and the glad-tidings of the Kingdom, and consulted and deliberated respecting the founding of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
Although hereafter thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be founded, yet as this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is the first Divine Institute in America, therefore it is very important and its results and fruits are endless.  Soon will some of its results become known and evident.
In brief:  The delegates who congregated in that lordly Assemblage and engaged in the service of the Divine Kingdom must give thanks night and day, for they were thus aided and confirmed and left a "footprint" (trace) of which eternality is an inherent quality.
Although the importance of this Divine Institute is not very evident now, yet in the future it will be clear and plain as the sun.
Upon ye be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Amín U. Faríd, Haifa, Syria, 20 July 1909.


V:5, 5 June1914
page 67
[From The North Shore Review, 16 May 1914]
The Bahá'í Temple at Wilmette1 to be built with money from every race, clime and religion under the sun
Isabel Fraser
"The Bahá'í Faith is not an organization.  You can never organize the Bahá'í Cause.  The Bahá'í Faith is the spirit of this age.  It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century.  The Bahá'í Cause is an inclusive Faith:  The teachings of all the religions and societies are found here; the Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, Zoroastrians, Theosophists, Freemasons, Spiritualists, et. al., find their highest aims in this Cause.  Even the Socialists and philosophers find their theories fully developed in this Faith."
'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
"Open ye the gates of the Temple to all mankind," is the command of the Bahá'í leader, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whose teachings are today drawing together all nations, races and creeds.  The Temple soon to be erected at Wilmette typifies the first visible fruits of this teaching in America.  It is called the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, which means "The Dawning-place of praises", and these praises are to be sounded through the medium of worship plus activity, for the inner temple, or house of worship, is to be surrounded by such practical accessories as a hospital, hospice for travellers, school for the study of higher sciences, orphanage, etc.
It is to be a new departure architecturally, for it is to be built on the plan of nine.  'Abdu'l-Bahá on his recent journey to America gave a graphic word picture of the structure as follows:  "The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be like a beautiful bouquet.  The central lofty edifice will have nine sides surrounded by nine avenues interlacing nine gardens where nine fountains will play.  There will be nine gateways and columns and the nine will also be carried out in the galleries and dome.  The mystery of this edifice is great, and cannot be unveiled yet, but its erection is the most important undertaking of this day.
"The Chicago Temple is the mother Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of America, and in coming centuries many Mashriqu'l-Adhkárs in other cities will be the offspring.  Think not that this Temple will be like the hundred thousand gigantic temples you see about you.  The more the world aspires to a perfect civilization the more the matter of co-operation and mutual assistance becomes manifest.  More and more is it evident that the continuance of humanity depends upon this inter-relationship.  The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, which is the greatest of the divine foundations on this earth, will be the means for mutual help under all conditions whether in the degrees of truth and significance or in the stations of the material world, for the doors of these places are to be open for all sects-no differentiation.  Because, with one thought and one aim ye are engaging yourselves in the building of this temple, O ye servants and maidservants of the Merciful, know verily that this great project will be conducive to the union and affinity of all the children of man.  Know ye that when this Temple of God shall be built in Chicago, it will be to the spiritual body of the world what the inrush of the spirit is to the physical body of man, quickening it to its utmost parts and infusing a new light and power."
World-uniting effort
The following supplication, couched in the beautiful oriental imagery that distinguishes the Bahá'í Revelation, shows in no uncertain way the deep spiritual love that 'Abdu'l-Bahá though in far-away 'Akká in the Holy Land, is
page 68
directing toward this gigantic world-uniting effort which is to bud into fruition in the centre of America on the shores of our inland lakes:
"O Lord, make these holy souls who have arisen to build this Temple the dawning points of light and the manifestors of Thy signs.  Make each a leading cornerstone in this great edifice, a pillar of its pillars, for Thou art the Helper, the Supporter, the Rewarder!  These souls have arisen to serve Thee well, and have begun their servitude.  Confirm, aid and encourage each by the promise of Thy divine favours and make them of the elect.  Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Able, the Giver, the Shining, the Hearer and the Seer!
"O God!  O God!  I implore Thee with throbbing heart and streaming tears, to aid each one who endeavours for the erection of the House of the Lord, the building wherein Thy Name is mentioned every morn and eve.  Send down Thy benediction on whomsoever endeavours for the uprising of this Edifice among the sects and religions, and confirm him in every good deed of mankind; open the doors of riches and wealth unto him and make him an inheritor of the treasures of the kingdom which perishes not; make him the sign of giving among the peoples and reinforce him by the sea of Thy generosity and bounty, which is surging with the waves of grace and favour.  Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful and the Bountiful!"
It is interesting to note in passing, Mr Carnegie's recent munificent gift of several millions for promoting religious unity throughout the world and especially for the purpose of bringing about a more complete understanding between the religions of the East and West, a subject in which Mr Carnegie is vitally interested.
A recent communication from Mr M. M. Holbach, an extensive traveller throughout the East, who is now visiting 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Palestine, bears on the temple subject.  He writes of the Bahá'í temple at 'Ishqábád, which is the first of its kind in the world's history.  He says:
Sign of the times
"The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, or Bahá'í temple, at 'Ishqábád, is indeed a sign of the times.  That Russia should have permitted its erection is little short of a miracle.  That the first church in the world erected not for the worship of sect or community, but for the members of all churches and all sects to meet in union, should be in a country we have always associated with religious intolerance, gives food for thought.
"Thirty-three years ago the first Bahá'í teacher went to 'Ishqábád.  The now populous city had not then come into existence.  'Ishqábád was merely a camp of 60,000 soldiers in the wilderness.
"Áqá Muhammad Rída, the present guardian of the temple, was the teacher who carried the Bahá'í gospel of peace and brotherhood to military 'Ishqábád.  He was a mason by trade, and in company with a fellow workman, also from Persia, who shared the new faith, he worked with his hands at building the new town, but at the same time he built even better than he knew, for from this small beginning has sprung the thriving Bahá'í community, which is roughly estimated at 1,000 persons, who, stimulated by a donation of 2,000 roubles from 'Abdu'l-Bahá himself, have given so liberally of their worldly goods that 'Ishqábád can claim forever the proud distinction of having erected the first Temple of Peace in the world.
"At first the Russian government refused permission for the erection of the temple, and a special petition was sent by the Bahá'ís direct to the Czar, who had the matter inquired into, and, finding that so far from there being anything political in the background, the followers of Bahá'u'lláh are enjoined never to take up arms or join in any revolutionary movement against the state, gave the required permission.  The Russian government sealed its approval when the Governor of 'Ishqábád-Koropatkan, who afterward distinguished himself as general in the Russian-Japanese war-came in state to lay the foundation stone and deposited a silver box containing papers descriptive of the circumstances relating to the building.  At this same ceremony the highest representatives of the different religious bodies in 'Ishqábád-Christians, Muslims, Jews and Armenians-were present by invitation.
"Speaking of this the other day, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  'Praise be to God! that Bahá'u'lláh has broken the barriers of religious prejudice.  He has commanded all the Bahá'ís to consort with those of other religions and nationality with the utmost love and kindness and fellowship.  They are all the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch. ...  We must make religion the cause of love and affiliation, and not the means of controversy and strife.  Praise be to God! that we are all the children of the Kingdom.'"


V:5, 5 June1914
page 71
Sixth Annual Convention of Bahá'í Temple Unity
Chicago, 25-28 April 1914
Alfred E. Lunt
...
... One could not better render in a few words the supreme lesson of this Convention, a lesson not confined to the ranks of the delegates but felt in every Bahá'í community in the West, than in the following stirring Prayer given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in a Tablet read at the first Convention held in America, in which He referred to those arising to serve the Cause of God:
"O my Lord, Make them Thy refulgent dawns which shine and gleam upon the Temple of Unity, so that they may be resuscitated from the tombs of negligence, unfurl the standard of virtue and chant the verses of self-abnegation and renunciation while hastening toward the altar of sacrifice.  Verily Thou are especializing to Thy Mercy whomsoever Thou willest and verily Thou are powerful in all things."


V:5, 5 June1914
page 71
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Extracts from Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb's Diary, 13 January 1914
Mr and Mrs Holbach had several questions to ask about the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and its accessories.  In answer 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"When these institutions, college, hospital, hospice and establishments for the incurables, university for the study of higher sciences and giving post-graduate courses, and other philanthropic buildings, are built, its doors will be open to all the nations and all religions.  There will be drawn absolutely no line of demarcation.  Its charities will be dispensed irrespective of colour and race.  Its gates will be flung wide to mankind; prejudice toward none, love for all.  The central building will be devoted to the purposes of prayer and worship.  Thus for the first time religion will become harmonized with science and science will be the hand-maid of religion, both showering their material and spiritual gifts on all humanity.  In this way the people will be lifted out of the quagmires of slothfulness and bigotry."


V:6, 24 June 1914
page 81
"I am 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and no more"
Tonight, I desire to speak to you on a most important subject, which you must engrave on the tablets of your hearts like unto the engraving of pictures on adamantine rock, to the extent that you may never forget it, and as you travel through life will relate it to the believers of God.
It is this:  The Holy, Divine Manifestations are unique and peerless.  They are the archetypes of celestial and spiritual virtues in their own age and cycle.  They stand on the summit of the Mount of Vision and they foreshadow the perfections of the evolving humanity.
For example:  during the dispensation of His Holiness Moses-Peace be upon Him-there was not a single human soul similar or like unto Him.  He surpassed all the Holy Souls who came after Him, even the hosts of the Jewish prophets.  In a similar manner all the people who lived during the cycle of His Holiness Christ-May my life be a sacrifice to Him-were under His spiritual authority.  They had no will of their own.  He was the Sun and the others were the lamps.  He was unique and peerless, the centre and the focal point of the mighty forces.  Everyone else was under His shadow.  He was the Orb and the others were the stars.  He was also unique and peerless.  Everyone caught the rays of Light from Him, and was enkindled through His Fire.  In a like manner was the epoch of His Holiness the Báb-May the life of aught else be a ransom to Him-and He was matchless and without a peer.  All the rivers received their strength from that great sea.
Finally during the cycle of the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh]-May My life be a sacrifice to His believers-all are beneath His shadow.  He is the Unique and Peerless One till the next Manifestation.  It is, however, not definite that it will be 1,000 years; it may be 2,000, or 10,000 or 20,000 years; but it is definite that for the coming 1,000 years there will appear no Manifestation; for 1,000 years there shall arise no Sun.  All the appearances will be beneath the shade of the Most Great Appearance; they will be as stars of guidance.  All of them shall gather around this Fountain of Life; all of them will become illumined with the rays of this Sun; all of them will receive a share and a portion from this great Sea; all of them will become vivified with this soul imparting breeze and all of them will be under the down-pour of this rain.  The aim is this:  His Holiness the Báb gave the Glad-tidings concerning the Appearance of the Manifestion of God, and His Holiness, the Blessed Perfection, was the "Promised One" of all the nations and religions.  The Báb was the "Morning Star", heralding the glorious Dawn of the Sun of Reality.  Now all of us are under Its shadow and receive the refulgent Bestowals from It.
I am 'Abdu'l-Bahá and no more.  I am not pleased with whomsoever praises me with any other title.  I am the Servant at the Threshold of the Blessed Perfec-
page 82
tion, and I hope that this Servitude of mine will become acceptable.  Whosoever mentions any other name save this will not please me at all.  'Abdu'l-Bahá and no more.  No person must praise me except by this name:  'Abdu'l-Bahá'.
The Blessed Perfection and the Báb are unique and peerless in this Dispensation, and until the next Manifestation.  The belief, the opinion and the thoughts of all believers must revolve around this common Centre.  This oneness of belief must become fully realized so that in the future there may arise no differences.  His Holiness the Báb was the "Morn of Guidance".  The Blessed Perfection was the "Desired One" of all the religions and nations, and all of us are under the Blessed Shade, non-existent and evanescent.  All of us are the servants of this Holy Threshold.  All of us are the thralls-meek, humble and lowly.  All of us receive the Light from that Sun of Reality.  There is no other mention, no other quality, no other appellation for us save this.  I am 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The believers must be satisfied with this explanation so that I may be pleased with them.  All of the friends must be united on this matter.  Praise be to God! that up to this time, through the Favour and Providence of the Blessed Perfection, no other title or word save "'Abdu'l-Bahá" has appeared either from my tongue or pen.  I hope that all the believers will walk in my footsteps so that I may become satisfied with all of them.  Our highest aspiration must be this:  that we may become confirmed to render some slight service in the Path of God.  There is no greater station than this.
After the Departure of the Blessed Perfection and till the Appearance of the next Manifestation there is no other station save the Station of Servitude, pure and absolute.  Not a servitude liable to interpretation; but an unconditional and unqualified servitude.  This is the real fact.  Whosoever expresses any other interpretation, I will not be pleased with him.  This is my advice to you.  This is my counsel to you.  This is my desire.  This is my good pleasure.  This is my last request from all the believers of God!  The balsam to my wound is servitude at the Holy Threshold.  My Sadratu'l-Muntahá is servitude at the Holy Threshold!  My highest destination is servitude at the Holy Threshold!  My Supreme Paradise is servitude at the Holy Threshold!  My Spiritual Temple is servitude at the Holy Threshold!  The Most Shining Crown is servitude at the Holy Threshold!
What diadem is more glorious than Servitude at the Holy Threshold?  I hope that all of us will become assisted in this servitude.  I hope each one of us will become confirmed in absolute humility and meekness at the Holy Threshold.  This is the Delectable Paradise of the righteous ones!  This is the ultimate desire of the believers!  This is the Zenith of the hope of the favoured ones!
'Abdu'l-Bahá


V:6, 24 June 1914
page 83
'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to Philadelphia
8-10 June 1912
A brief description containing various Talks in the order in which they were delivered at the Hotel Rittenhouse; also Talk at the home of Mrs Revell.
Miss Edna McKinney
On the eighth day of June, nineteen hundred and twelve, 'Abdu'l-Bahá Centre of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh, quickened the sleeping body of Philadelphia by his presence.  'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived from New York City at the Broad Street Station at six o'clock in the evening, and was met by a few of the Bahá'ís.  He was very tired and asked to go quickly to the hotel, the Rittenhouse, 22nd and Chestnut Streets, where he was met by several newspaper reporters to whom he spoke but briefly.  Accompanying 'Abdu'l-Bahá was Mírzá 'Alí Akbar, Dr Amín U. Faríd and Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Early Sunday morning the friends began to arrive at the hotel, and from ten on till late at night there was spread for all a wonderful feast.  Each came and partook according to his desire and capacity, high and low, rich and poor, black and white-there is no distinction at the table of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This food brought Everlasting Life to all who feasted.  Questions were asked and answered both in regard to personal matters and with regard to the work of the Cause in Philadelphia.
'Abdu'l-Bahá asked what was being done in Philadelphia.  What meetings were held and how they were conducted.  Mrs Revell answered that meetings were held at the homes of the friends; also one public meeting each week in a hall; that the Nineteen-Day Feast was observed; and that at all meetings the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá were read in the endeavour to spread the blessed message of unity and love to all inquirers.
'Abdu'l-Bahá then said that Philadelphia would be glorified through the Spirit of Bahá'u'lláh.  He said, "Write this down, that on such a day, in such a room1 'Abdu'l-Bahá told you these things."
He then went on to say:
"I have come to Philadelphia to breathe into you the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh.  My heart led me here.
"You must continue to keep the Nineteen-Day Feast.  It is very important,-very good.  But when you present yourselves in the meetings, before entering them, free yourselves from all that you have in your hearts;-free your thoughts and minds from all else save God and speak from the heart-that all may make this a gathering of love;-make it the cause of illumination;-make it a gathering of attracted hearts; surround it with the lights of the Supreme Concourse.  Thus may you be gathered together in the utmost love.
"Turn to God and say:  O God! dispel all those elements which are the cause of discord, and prepare for us those things which are the cause of unity and agreement!  O God! cause to descend upon us Heavenly Fragrance and change this gathering into a gathering of Heaven!  Grant to us every benefit and every food!  Prepare for us the food of love!  Give to us the food of knowledge!  Bestow upon us the food of Heavenly Illumination!  In your heart remember these things and then enter the Unity Feast.
"Each one of you must think how to make the other members of your assembly happy and pleased.  Each one must consider all those who are present as better and greater than himself.  Each one must consider himself less than the rest.  Consider their station as high, and think of your own station as low.  Should you act and live according to these behests; know verily and of a certainty, that such a Feast is indeed the Heavenly Food; that Supper is indeed the Lord's Supper.  I am the servant of that gathering.
"This is the gospel I give to you."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then went to his room for a while.
page 84
Different ones were continually arriving and joining the little circle of friends for no one seemed willing to go away.  In fact when some did start to leave, thinking that they were intruding upon another's opportunity, 'Abdu'l-Bahá waved them back and said in English, "Be seated!"
Mr William Remey came in about this time and when 'Abdu'l-Bahá saw him, he greeted him most warmly.
"Your brother mentioned your name to me.  You are greatly blessed by having such a brother.  At present you do not know how greatly you are blessed, but you will see this with your own eyes.  Your whole family will be glorified; they will be proud that they have such sons as Mr Remey and yourself.
"Consider how the Disciples were treated.  While they were alive people would not have anything to do with them, but later on they felt greatly glorified if they had even the remotest relationship with them.  They became respected and revered;-even the earth that was touched by their feet.  Now the people prostrate themselves before their tombs, but they were persecuted while they lived.  At that time people did not like to be known as relatives of these Disciples of Christ.
"While I was travelling in Palestine I came across a stony piece of ground.  I saw that a number of people had gathered around one stone, kissing it, weeping and supplicating.  I asked one, 'What is this?'  He told me that the Apostles of Christ, once upon a time, had passed by this place and sat upon these rocks, but there were so many rocks they did not know on which the Apostles had sat.  Therefore they prostrated themselves before all of them that perchance they might come across and kiss the right stone.  In their own day the people beat them, put them in prison, ridiculed them, exiled them from their own cities and finally martyred them.  They even did not give permission that they might be buried in their own cemeteries.  They were not willing to have the body of His Holiness Jesus Christ put in the Jews' cemetery.  The Apostles went and bought a piece of land and interred him.  Then the Jews took their refuse there.  Later men came and built a great church over it.  This was built by the mother of one of the Caesars, after three hundred years.  Even up to this time in certain parts it is known as the Church of Refuse.  This is really the Tomb of Christ.  It was the place where all the refuse of the city was gathered in the day of Christ.  For three hundred years it continued in this manner.  You can go now and see what wonderful change there is, see what a wonderful church is built, how many jewels and precious stones are collected there.  The statue of Christ is bejewelled with all kinds of precious stones, so are the statues of Mary and others.  How different the attitude of the people in the days of Manifestations.  They persecute, deride and ridicule them, put a crown of thorns upon their heads, beat them in the street, spit in their faces and finally crucify them.  But later on they worship their images, kiss the ground upon which they walked, or the stone upon which they sat.  This is the attitude of the people."
During this time many people had been coming in and sitting down quietly.  One of the ladies brought some flowers.  Mrs Boyle was arranging them in a vase, when 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "You are serving too much, Mrs Boyle, you will get tired."  Mrs Boyle replied that it was a pleasure to be permitted to serve and that she wished 'Abdu'l-Bahá's guests to see everything beautiful about him.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The guests are flowers themselves; they are the flowers of the rose-garden of God; they will never wither; they will not disappear; they have perennial beauty and fragrance for evermore."  He then turned to Miss Washington and said, "I have come to visit you here, do you accept a guest?"
Dr Kenneth E. Evans, Pastor of the Unitarian Church at which 'Abdu'l-Bahá was to speak during the morning, was announced and 'Abdu'l-Bahá left us for a few moments, telling us to remain seated.  When he returned he was smiling.  What a pleasure it is to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá smile!  One realized then the true force of happiness and showing to the world a brave, noble exterior expressing the reality of a heart full of love to all humanity. ...
'Abdu'l-Bahá called a little girl to him and patted her hair, saying in English, "She is a very sweet daughter, a very sweet girl.  Good daughter, very good, good daughter, good girl!"
After seating some late arrivals 'Abdu'l-Bahá turned to one of the ladies and said:
"You are extremely welcome.  Are you happy?  I have come here to make you happy.  I have come here to give you the Message of Bahá'u'lláh; that this Message may become the cause of your happiness.
"Like unto a dove I carry a Message with
page 85
me wherever I go.  Bahá'u'lláh has written a letter, a Message; He has put it on my wings; through His power He has made me to soar and I have brought that Message here.
"That letter contains the glad tidings of God; that letter is the call of the Kingdom; that letter is the heavenly signs; that letter brings you the glad-tidings that He, Bahá'u'lláh has accepted you, elected you from among all His creatures and prepared you for the sake of His Love for the whole human world; so that all may be enlightened with the Light of the Kingdom, sing the verses of Oneness, become the cause of the illumination of the realm of humanity, the source of everlasting happiness, the spreader of the cause of international peace;-so that all may find the Oneness of the world of humanity, promulgate oneness of thought, lay the foundations of unity of religions, establish universal education, announce the idea of racial oneness, proclaim one race from every standpoint, and illuminate the world of man with the Lights of God.  This is the Message.  This is the letter which Bahá'u'lláh has put upon my wings, and I give you that Message today.  It is assured that if you accept the Message of the Blessed Perfection and live and act accordingly, you may bestow Everlasting Life upon the world of humanity.
"I have brought these flowers from the Orient so that you may perfume the Occident.  This is a melody that I have brought from the East so that you may listen to it in the West.  It is certain that you will listen to it.  This harmony will stir the stones and even the plants; it will give hearing to the deaf, quicken heedless hearts and awaken the dead bodies; for this is the Melody of Bahá'u'lláh."
Turning to one of the gentlemen, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "How are you?  You must speak now."
The gentleman replied that he had heard 'Abdu'l-Bahá speak in Washington and had come to hear him again in Philadelphia; that he was glad indeed to see the East and the West so affiliated.
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "We have become your relatives.  The East and the West have embraced each other.  God willing they will become one; the East will become the West and the West will become the East; both of them will become one.
"We desire to wipe this Atlantic away and connect these two continents, so that the sea may not have any effect; it may not become the cause of separation, it may seem as though there was no Atlantic between the two hemispheres; that these two hemispheres be connected with each other; nay rather, they will be as one country.  The East must become identical with the West and the West with the East.  Do you think it is possible and it is good?  It will be the age of the diamond; the diamond!"
Then the gentleman said, "God willing the wireless telegraph and the fast steamers will make this possible."
'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "Don't say, 'God willing,' say 'I hope'.  When that wireless telegraphy of the consciousness is established and communication is realized, it will be like the communion between the mind and the heart.  Think what wonderful unity is between these two human organisms.  It is uninterrupted.  The communication between the heart and the mind is continual, uninterrupted, and noiseless.  But what a great knowledge it has; although it is voiceless its voice fills the whole world.  Wireless telegraphy is good, is perfect, for wireless telegraphy consists of the vibrations of the air, which is the medium of the message from one place to another, but the other wireless telegraphy is realized through the vibrations of the Love of God.
"You have great capability.  This is truth that I speak to you.  Your sympathies are great, you have rapidity of thought.  Therefore it is my hope that you may practice the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and live and act according to those principles.  Teachings are revealed for the sake of practice and not for the sake of hearing or listening only.  When man listens to certain teachings he must live them.  To listen to the teachings is very easy, but it is difficult to bring them into our daily lives.
"It is easy to expound one thousand letters of teachings.  It is still easier to listen to them, but it is difficult to put into practice one of them.  Teachings are like an image reflected into a mirror.  If these images find outward expression, wonderful results will be the outcome, but if they are only images in the mirror they remain valueless.
"His Holiness Jesus Christ brought blessed Teachings.  He was the cause of the illumination of the world of man.  He was the cause of Everlasting Life.  He was the cause of the agreement of the sects of the world of humanity.  He was the cause of the attainment of the good pleasure of the Manifest One, but His
page 86
teachings were more or less lost in the mirrors.  All the books and libraries seek to bring these teachings fully into the outward realm of activity.  If the teachings of His Holiness Jesus Christ had found full expression in the realm of visibility, this world would have become another world; it would have become the paradise of heaven; it would have become the image of the Kingdom.
"First, souls practice the teachings.  These souls become the realization of the heaven of God; they illuminate the realm of man.  Now it is my hope that you may become a perfect mirror reflecting the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh; not only in the mirror, but finding outward expression.  Every night, may you think, 'Which one of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh shall I put into my daily life tomorrow?'  Should you become assisted in the practice of one of the teachings of the Blessed Perfection, thank God for it a thousand times,-that you have become helped and confirmed in that service.  This is my hope for you."
The gentleman asked, "Is Bahá'u'lláh the reincarnation of Jesus Christ?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "The Manifestation of the Essence of God is like unto the sun, which has different risings.  The dawning places are different but the sun is always the same.  The lamps are different but the light is one.
"Consider with the eye of reality.  The aim of life is reality, and reality is one.  Reality does not accept multiplicity.  This is the essence of the teachings, and an established, self-evident fact.  The light is the light no matter from what lamp it shines.  The rose is the rose no matter from which rose-garden it comes.  The fruit is the fruit no matter upon which tree it is produced.  The breeze possesses life no matter from which direction it is wafted.  Always think of the breeze and not of the direction.  Look upon the flower and not upon the earth which has produced it.  Look upon the light and not upon the lamp.  Look upon the jewels and pearls, not upon the depths of the sea.  Search and find the pearls from whatever sea they may come, whether eastern sea or western sea.  Find the pearls, find the jewels from whichever mine they may be; whether it be the mine of the north or mine of the south.  Consider the teachings.  If they are truth hold fast to them; but if they are untruth throw them away.
"We cannot say that the Manifestations are either greater or lesser.  In order to make this distinction we must be greater than they.  The only thing that we know is this-they are life.  But to say that one is lesser and the other greater; this is beyond the comprehension of our intellects.  In order to know that they are greater or lesser, we must surround them.  But we are the surrounded, not the surrounder.  We see that they bestow light,-that the rest of the world is illumined by them;-that is all.  Do you not think that is the truth?  We need a great teacher, a great professor to say that this teacher is inferior to the other teacher.  We are all pupils.  We only know that they are the teachers,-but so far as their degrees are concerned, we cannot comprehend them.  If we want to do that we must be greater than they are, so that we may examine them and then find out which one has the greater knowledge.  But as we are only pupils the only thing that we can find out and know is that they are teachers,-that they have brought certain teachings for the safety of the realm of the world."
At the Unitarian Church
'Abdu'l-Bahá with his party arrived at the church at eleven o'clock.  The church was crowded and every available seat was taken.  It was a most attentive audience which listened to those heavenly and humanitarian truths that morning.1  The church seats about six or eight hundred.  The pulpit is small and situated very near to the congregation.  This was Children's Day and there were many bright young faces.
Dr Evans introduced 'Abdu'l-Bahá briefly and then gave over the morning to him.  Dr Faríd acted as interpreter.  At the close of the service 'Abdu'l-Bahá was asked to pronounce a Benediction, after which the people crowded around him and he shook hands with all.  The party then returned to the hotel and the various friends went to their homes, only to return to the hotel as early as possible in the afternoon.
Afternoon at the Hotel Rittenhouse
On arriving at the hotel later in the day we found about fifty people in the little parlour.  'Abdu'l-Bahá waved us into the room and bade us be seated.  As there were no chairs-we sat on the floor, which pleased 'Abdu'l-Bahá very much.  He said, "This is a cause of unity; see! the Occident is sitting on the floor like the Orient and the Orient is sitting on the chairs."  He laughed quite heartily, and then proceeded
page 87
with his discourse, which was in most part directed to a coloured believer from Harrisburg, Pa.:
"You have a good, pleasant country, excellent climate and polite, good mannered people.  This is a populous country, and the prosperity of any country is dependent upon its people.  One must not look at the house but at the dweller in the house.  One must not look at the shell but at the pearl within the shell.  One must not look at the garden but at the trees and flowers growing in the garden.  If a country he in a state of the utmost prosperity but its people be without progress or perfections, it is valueless.  If the dweller in the house be not worthy, no matter how excellent the house may be; if within the shell there be no pearls, of what use is the house, of what value is the delicacy of the shell itself?  Now, we must endeavour in order that the delicate shells may contain brilliant pearls; these beautiful gardens produce fruitful trees.  These brilliant pearls are the souls who are the lamps of the world of humanity, the fruitful trees of the divine garden, the stars of eternal glory.  Strive that such souls may be found in your country.
"I hope that in this city there may arise some who shall be as lights on the Horizon of Reality; jewels in the crown of humanity, foundation stones in the divine temple of Oneness, lanterns of the Love of God.  This is my hope, that in time so it shall be.  Praise be to God!  You have capacity, your intentions are sincere, you are turning to God, you seek for inspiration from the Kingdom, you are receptive and enjoy with spiritual intelligence.  I hope that you may be of the 'chosen ones'.
"In Washington, in many gatherings and meetings, we spoke of unity between the white and the coloured races, presenting the subject with incontrovertible proofs and evidences.  Whether logical proofs or traditional proofs, before God there is no distinction of white or coloured.  Whosoever has a pure heart, his deeds are better and more acceptable before the threshold of the Almighty, though he may be red or yellow.  It is evident the coloured and the white people belong to the same human family.  In reality they are of the same human household in which colours, as in all departments of life, are used for adornment.
"If you enter a rose garden and find all the flowers of the same colour there is no enjoyment; but when you see white roses, dark roses, red and yellow-many kinds and colours, you will have perfect enjoyment.  And why should not the same rule govern and prevail in the human family.  For instance, in a flock of doves some are white, some are grey, some may be yellow or even red, but notwithstanding the difference in colours they live together in the utmost love and unity.  Among the doves which belong to the animal kingdom, variety of colour does not become a subject of discord; they dwell peacefully with each other.  Is it then befitting that in the human family that difference of colour should become the cause of strife?  The dove knows that difference of colours does not harm it.  Among horses some are red, some black, some white and some yellow, yet they are in the utmost affinity and accord.  Most of the animals of the lower kingdom are of varied colours yet they associate peacefully, kind with kind.  Is it befitting that man does not equal the birds?  Indeed it is not.
"We said in the Washington addresses that the coloured race must be very grateful to the white race and the white race kind and helpful to the coloured race.  The coloured race must be very thankful because the men of the white race sacrificed their lives and became the cause of their freedom.  This magnanimity cannot be forgotten.  Furthermore, through this the white race became the cause of freedom for the coloured race all over the world.  The freedom of the coloured race in America became the cause of freedom for the coloured race in Africa and throughout the world.  In Africa the coloured race was grossly ill-treated.  Now they are free.  This was because of the freedom enjoyed by the coloured race in this country, and the freedom of the coloured race in America was accomplished through the white race.  The coloured race should be grateful to the white; they should never forget this.  Therefore we must endeavour so that day by day the love of God may increase in the world of humanity, the laws of man find the common bond strengthened, the virtues of the human world be developed and divine love shed its rays upon the mind of man until humanity becomes the manifestation of the rays of Divine Love.
"Everything which is the cause of the promotion of love must be encouraged, and on the other hand that which is the cause of hatred and enmity must be shunned.  God has sent all His messengers and Prophets to establish love amongst humanity.  All the Heavenly Books
page 89
are written for the sake of Love.  All the prophets have borne trials and martyrdoms in order that Love may become established in the hearts of the children of God.  The wise men and philosophers of every age have suffered and endured so that this Love might become reality.  But ignorant, selfish man does not let it become a reality.  Every day a veil is created; every day a new darkness is seen.  Every day an impenetrable cloud appears so that the rays of the Sun of Truth are not manifest.  One must live fortified against passion and desire.  We must obey the command of God.  We must live according to the Good Pleasure of the Lord.  The Good Pleasure of the Lord lies in Love.  The Good Pleasure of the Lord is the illumination of the world of humanity, and the illumination of the world of humanity is Love.  I hope that all of you may become the manifestors of Divine Love.  Like the angels may you become united!  May you bloom like the flowers and trees in the garden!  May you become fruitful like the trees in the orchard!  So may you become Children of the Kingdom!"
After this talk 'Abdu'l-Bahá went for a walk and the friends gradually disbursed.  There were many people present to whom the teachings were new.
At the Baptist Temple
At eight o'clock 'Abdu'l-Bahá arrived at the Baptist Temple, Broad and Berks Streets.  Dr Conwell went forward and greeted him most cordially, taking both his hands in his own, and seated him with evident pleasure and joy.  The collection had just been taken and 'Abdu'l-Bahá directed Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb to place money in the collection plate.  This is 'Abdu'l-Bahá's invariable custom.  In every church where he has spoken he has given towards its support, according to the needs of that church.
The talk1 that evening was long and complete, going into detail on many points.  It was listened to by about 2,500 people.  After the service, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spent some time in Dr Conwell's study, meeting different ones.  Here again, as in the morning, the people crowded around him to feel the touch of his hand or hear a word from him.  Such is the power of the Spirit of Bahá'u'lláh.
The Monday morning newspapers had most favourable items, many of them taking sections of the Sunday talks at the two churches verbatim.  The Spirit of Bahá'u'lláh had already quickened the City of Philadelphia.  Although 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to this city covered but
page 90
thirty-three hours, several thousand people heard him speak and many more read the blessed words in the papers.
At the home of Mrs Revell
At 9:30 Monday morning, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to the home of Mrs Mary J. Revell, where a meeting had been arranged.  There were about fifty people present.  'Abdu'l-Bahá went into every room of the home and seemed very happy.  He sat in a rocker by the front window and spoke these blessed words to all:
"This is a meeting, the members of which are strung together like pearls and all the pearls are brilliant, for all are Bahá'ís.  The brilliancy of these pearls is not known for the present; their brilliancy will be known later on.  Thank ye God that He has drawn you together through the Blessed Perfection.  He has made you fruitful like unto trees.  He has made you like unto a rose garden, the freshness of which will be known in the future.  When the heat and rays of the Sun of Reality shine in the future, then the freshness and beauty of these flowers will be realized.  In brief, render thanks to God, for your spirits are gladdened with the glad-tidings of God.  Be forgetful of all other thoughts.  Be filled with the Spirit of Bahá'u'lláh.  Your thoughts must be of Bahá'u'lláh.  Your mention must be of Bahá'u'lláh.  Your life must be devoted to Bahá'u'lláh.  Your firmness must be evident in Bahá'u'lláh for Bahá'u'lláh has endured for your sake infinite vicissitudes.  All His life He was subject to persecutions.  During the nights, He was not at rest.  He did not sleep in peace for one night,-not one.  Never did He find peace and composure.  All His life He was subject to persecution.  All His life He was exiled.  All His life He was imprisoned.  Therefore we must be loyal to Him; turn our faces to Him; praise His mention in this world; expound His teachings; quicken people with His Spirit, so that His Heavenly Image may descend and His Heavenly Power affect the hearts.  Thus every day may we find a new spirit, every day may we make a new resolution, every day may we be confirmed and illumine the world of humanity.  We must supplicate day and night, beg assistance and confirmation from His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh that we may become pure mirrors, that the rays of sincerity may perfect them, the virtues of the human world appear, the moralities of the Kingdom be reflected and that we may attain the high station of happiness.  This is my advice to you.  This is my request for you.  This is my hope for you."
All day Monday he gave private interviews.  After the meeting in the morning at Mrs Revell's home he met the friends who wished a personal word.  After having seen most of them he slept for a few moments.  Between one and two o'clock, two of the Bahá'ís went to the hotel and found 'Abdu'l-Bahá there alone.  He talked to them in English.  To one of them he said, "Why were you not at the Bahá'í home this morning?  All the Bahá'ís were there.  You should have been at this Bahá'í home."  He was smiling and very happy.
At three o'clock 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his party took the train back to New York City.  Although an indescribable feeling of sadness came over each and every one, still they know the Sun shall never set for Philadelphia again; she will go on and on until all promises are fulfilled, and the true spirit of "brotherly love" be fully realized.  For 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said so and his words give life and are creative.
__________
And here we wish to urge that all spread the Blessed Message of Bahá'u'lláh as much as possible, so that many more people may come to the Light of Reality.  For it is a wonderful blessing and one that cannot be compared to anything else in all the world, even if one must travel far and under great difficulties to do so.  The reward is far in excess of anything the heart or mind can conceive.


V:7, 13 July 1914
page 97
"Ere long this call will fill the world with its fruits"
It is nearly two years and a half that I have been a wanderer over mountains and deserts and a traveller over seas and lands.  The journey was extended to many climes. ...  The penetrative power of the Holy Cause has stirred the columns of the world.  In many cities of America the Divine Call was raised.  Likewise in the countries of Europe.  In many churches, clubs, meetings and universities of America the Glad-Tidings of the Kingdom of Abhá were explained explicitly with a resonant voice, and no one arose in opposition.  They listened most attentively and expressed their pleasure afterward.  Ere long this Call shall yield the most glorious results and will fill the world with its fruits.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Extract from Tablet to Persian Bahá'ís


V:7, 13 July 1914
page 98
Tablet to Bahá'ís of Philadelphia
To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful, Philadelphia, upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye sons and daughters of the Kingdom!
... O ye friends and maid-servants of the Merciful!  It is easy to advance toward the Kingdom, but it is difficult to remain firm and steadfast.  Therefore, endeavour ye as much as ye can to make your faith firm like unto a well-rooted tree and produce blossoms and fruits.  Neither be ye agitated on account of the blowing winds of tests and trials.  The firmer the roots of the tree the greater its blossoms and fruits.  Because the Apostles of Christ remained firm and steadfast they became assisted in the most great services and the confirmations of the Holy Spirit descended upon them uninterruptedly.
If ye seek the illumination of the Kingdom ye must arise with infinite resolution.  Be ye not discouraged or lukewarm on account of troubles and vicissitudes.  Show ye an effort so that that region may be illumined, the Kingdom of God may raise its tents and the breaths of the Holy Spirit may quicken the souls.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 28 April 1911.


V:7, 13 July 1914
page 104
"I am waiting, I am patiently waiting"
Friends, the time is coming when I shall be no longer with you.  I have done all that could be done.  I have served the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh to the utmost of my ability.  I have laboured night and day all the years of my life.
O how I long to see the believers shouldering the responsibilities of the Cause!  This is the time of the proclamation of the Kingdom of Abhá!  This is the hour of Union and Accord!  This is the day of the spiritual harmony of the friends of God!  All the resources of my physical strength are exhausted and the spirit of my life is the news of the Unity of the people of Bahá.  I am straining my ears toward the East and toward the West, toward the North and toward the South, perchance I might hear the songs of love and good-fellowship raised from the meetings of the believers.  My days are numbered, and save this there is no joy left for me.
O how I yearn to see the friends united like unto a strand of shining pearls like the brilliant Pleiades, like the rays of the sun and the gazelles of one meadow!  The nightingale of significance is singing for them; will they not listen?  The bird of paradise is warbling; will they not heed?  The Angel of the Kingdom of Abhá is calling to them; will they not hearken?  The Messenger of the Covenant is pleading; will they not obey?
Ah me!  I am waiting, waiting to hear the glad news that the believers are the embodiment of sincerity and loyalty, that they are the incarnation of love and amity and the visible symbols of unity and concord!  Will they not rejoice my heart?  Will they not satisfy my cravings?  Will they not comply with my request?  Will they not fulfil my anticipations?  Will they not answer my call?
I am waiting.  I am patiently waiting!
'Abdu'l-Bahá
From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 2 April 1914.


V:8, 1 August 1914
page 115
Universal peace
Questions asked of and answers given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 11-14 May 1914.
Question:  "What is the greatest need of the world of humanity?"
Answer:  "Today in the world of humanity the most important matter is the question of Universal Peace.  The realization of this principle is the crying need of the time.  People have become restive and discontented.  The political world of every civilized nation has become a vast arena for the exhibition of militarism and the display of martial spirit.  The minds of the statesmen and Cabinet Ministers of every government are chiefly occupied with the question of war, and the council chambers are resounding with the call to war.  Self-interest is at the bottom of every war.  Greed, commerce, exploitation, the pushing further of the boundaries of the kingdom, colonization, the preservation of the treaty rights, the safeguarding of the lives and interests of the citizens, are a few of the pretexts of going into war.  And it has been proven by experience that the results of war are ruinous, both to the conquerors and the conquered.  Countries are laid waste, public property trampled under foot, commerce is paralyzed, fields crimsoned with innocent blood, and the progress of the world retarded.  How can a person rectify a wrong by committing a greater wrong-shedding the blood of his brothers?  The major part of the revenue of every country is expended over military preparations, infernal engines, the filling of arsenals with powder and shot, the construction of rapid-firing guns, the building of fortifications and soldiers' barracks and the annual maintenance of the army and navy.  From the peasants upward every class of society is heavily taxed to feed this insatiable monster of war.  The poor people have wrested from them all that they make with the sweat of their brows and the labour of their hands.
"In reality war is continuous.  The moral effect of the expenditures of these colossal sums of money for military purposes is just as deteriorating as the actual war and its train of dreadful carnage and horrors.  The ideal and floral1 forces of the contending parties become barbaric and bestial, the spiritual powers are stunted and the laws of divine civilization are disregarded.  Such a financial drain ossifies the veins and muscles of the body-politic, and congeals the delicate sensibilities of the spirit.
"There is not the least doubt that the nation or the government which puts forward an extraordinary effort in the promotion of Universal Peace, will be encircled with Divine Confirmations, and will be the object of honour and respect among all the inhabitants of the earth.  Such an action will become conducive to the prosperity and well-being of mankind.  Concerning this question of Universal Peace, fifty years ago His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh wrote to all the Sovereigns and Monarchs of the world, explaining in detail the benefits of peace and the evils of bloodshed.  Among other things He hath said:  'Originally mankind was one family, united and compact; later the members of this happy family were divided and subdivided through ignorance and prejudice.  Now the time has come again for their final unification.  Universal Peace will bring about this long-wished-for consummation.'
"Once the Parliament of Man is established and its constituent parts organized, the governments of the world having entered into a covenant of eternal friendship will have no need of keeping large standing armies and navies.  A few battalions to preserve internal order, and an International Police to keep the highways of the seas clear, are all that will be necessary.  Then these huge sums will be diverted to other more useful channels, pauperism will disappear, knowledge will increase, the victories of Peace will be sung by poets
page 116
and bards, knowledge will improve the conditions and mankind will be rocked in the cradle of felicity and bliss.  Then, whether a government is constitutional or republican, hereditary monarchy or democratic, the rulers will devote their time to the prosperity of their nations, the legislation of just and sane laws and the fostering of closer and more amicable relations with their neighbours-thus will the world of humanity become a mirror reflecting the virtues and attributes of the Kingdom of God."
Question:  "What is your opinion concerning disarmament?"
Answer:  "By a general agreement all the governments of the world must disarm simultaneously and at the same time.  It will not do if one lays down the arms and the other refuses to do so.  The nations of the world must concur with each other concerning this supremely important subject, thus they may abandon together the deadly weapons of human slaughter.  As long as one nation increases her military and naval budget, another nation will be forced into this crazed competition through her natural and supposed interests.  For example, Germany has unceasingly added to a vast sum for the maintenance of her army; this alarms the French statesmen and volatile patriots, and affects the calm and steady nerves of the British across the channel.  Immediately there will be rumours of war; German aggression, German ambition, the yellow journals write scaring editorials, jingoism becomes the topic of the capitals and the air will be filled with suspicions.  Someone will see, for the purpose of expediency, a German dirigible flying over French fortifications or English forts, making observations, whereupon a hue and a cry will be raised from every quarter of the country, and thus there will be a corresponding increase in the estimates of the Minister of War for the defence of our homes and our hearths, our women and our sweethearts, from the attacks of strangers!  The same argument is resorted to when the French nation adds one or two years to her military conscription, and the English Imperialists emphasize in public meetings the doctrine of the 'double standard power'.  Now as long as Germany continues in her own military perfection, the French will walk in her footsteps, trying at every turn to increase their own war ammunition, to be prepared for any national crisis or sudden attack.  Hence, it seems, the only solution lies in the fact of universal disarmament on the part of the nations.
"When we speak of Universal Peace, we mean that all the governments must change their fleets of battleships and dreadnoughts to a mighty fleet of merchant marine, plying the oceans of the world, uniting the distant shores and interweaving the commercial, intellectual and moral forces of mankind.  But should England alone transform the character of her warships, she would be at the mercy of her enemies and would remain powerless and defenceless.  The British Isles would unquestionably be threatened by a powerful invading, well-disciplined host.  Hence, aside from any national prowess, the English people would be pushed into this weltering whirlpool of military and naval expenditures, and would be struggling to keep their heads above the seething water all around them, which, unless calmed down, would drown all of them, irrespective of any nationality.
"Once a person met his friend in the street, and after the exchange of courtesies, gave him a hard blow in the face.  'Why dost thou do this?'  'Hast thou not read in the Gospel wherein Christ says-Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also!-Now according to this admonition, let me smite thee on thy left cheek also.'  The man submitted to the second blow quite willingly, and they parted.  Next day, they met each other again, and the man received two more blows on his cheeks without any evident murmur.  They met the third day, and he was going to inflict upon him the same blows.  'Wait a minute, my friend.  I am not the only person in the world to live according to the Teaching of Christ.  Thou also art one.  I have obeyed Him two days, and the next two days will be thy turn.'  With these words, he smote the man on his cheek, and asked him to 'turn the other also'.
"Now the question of disarmament must be put into practice by all the nations and not only by one or two.  Consequently the advocates of Peace must strive day and night, so that the individuals of every country may become peace-loving, public opinion may gain a strong and permanent footing, and day by day the army of International Peace be increased, complete disarmament be realized and the Flag of Universal Conciliation be waving on the summit of the mountains of the earth."
Question:  "How can Universal Peace be realized?"
Answer:  "The ideals of Peace must be nurtured and spread among the inhabitants of the world; they must be instructed in the
page 117
school of Peace and the evils of war.  First:  The financiers and bankers must desist from lending money to any government contemplating to wage an unjust war upon an innocent nation.  Second:  The presidents and managers of the railroads and steamship companies must refrain from transporting war ammunition, infernal engines, guns, cannons and powder from one country into another.  Third:  The soldiers must petition, through their representatives, the Ministers of War, the politicians, the Congressmen and the generals to put forth in a clear, intelligible language the reasons and the causes which have brought them to the brink of such a national calamity.  The soldiers must demand this as one of the prerogatives.  'Demonstrate to us,' they must say, 'that this is a just war, and we will then enter into the battlefield otherwise we will not take one step.  O ye kings and rulers, politicians and war-mongers; ye who spend your lives in most exquisite palaces of Italian architecture; ye who sleep in airy, well-ventilated apartments; ye who decorate your reception and dining halls with lovely pictures, sculptures, hangings and frescoes; ye who walk in perfect Elysiums, wreathed in orange and myrtle groves, the air redolent with delicious perfumes and vocal with the sweet songs of a thousand birds, the earth like a luxuriant carpet of emerald grass, bright flowers dotting the meadows and trees clothed in verdure; ye who are dressed in costly silk and finely-woven textures; ye who lie down on soft, feathery couches; ye who partake of the most delicious and savoury dishes; ye who enjoy the utmost ease and comfort in your wondrous mansions; ye who attend rare musical concerts whenever you feel a little disconcerted and sad; ye who adorn your large halls with green festoons and cut flowers, fresh garlands and verdant wreaths, illumining them with thousands of electric lights, while the exquisite fragrance of the flowers, the soft, ravishing music, the fairy-like illumination, lends enchantment; ye who are in such environment:  Come forth from your hiding-places, enter into the battlefield if you like to attack each other and tear each other to pieces if you desire to air your so-called contentions.  The discord and feud are between you; why do you make us, innocent people, a party to it?  If fighting and bloodshed are good things, then lead us into the fray by your presence!'
"In short, every means that produces war must be checked and the causes that prevent the occurrence of war be advanced; so that physical conflict may become an impossibility.  On the other hand, every country must be properly delimited, its exact frontiers marked, its national integrity secured, its permanent independence protected, and its vital interests honoured by the family of nations.  These services ought to be rendered by an impartial, international Commission.  In this manner all causes of friction and differences will be removed.  And in case there should arise some disputes between them, they could arbitrate before the Parliament of Man, the representatives of which should be chosen from among the wisest and most judicious men of all the nations of the world."
___________
Other questions and answers
What is the objective point of the Bahá'ís?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "In the world of humanity, every person is stimulated by a certain objective point.  The objective point of a soul is the acquirement of wealth.  He concentrates all his ambition around the actualization of this cherished hope.  The objective point of another soul is to attain the highest official position.  He strives day and night to gain the confidence of the public and the administrative authorities, so that they may promote him, through his merit, to the position of honour and fame among his fellow-men.  The objective point of a third person is the acquisition of science and art.  He spends all his energy and force in this direction.  The objective point of a fourth soul is to satisfy his selfish appetites and lust.  He thinks of no other things save those elements which might contribute to the gratification of his animal propensities.  But the objective point of the Bahá'ís is to promote the Principles of Bahá'u'lláh, to unfurl the Flag of Divine Brotherhood, to serve the cause of Universal Peace, to spiritualize mankind through the Breaths of the Holy Spirit, and to establish the kingdom of justice, love and mercy in the hearts of the people of the world.  This is the objective point of the Bahá'ís.  Dost thou think it is worthy of emulation?  In comparison to this, all the other objective points are trivial and unworthy of one's devotion.  We must live in such a manner as to merit the attainment of this Most Great Bestowal!  This is our glory!  This is our comfort!  This is the sublimity of our effort!
page 118
This is our highest desire!  Supposing that we might become the real Kings of this world, and all our hopes and wishes be realized, but not be confirmed in the spreading of the Cause-great regret would be facing us.  And though we might be enabled to enjoy the rare delicacies of wealth and the refined privileges of education, and be not assisted in the service of the Holy Threshold, then manifest loss would stare into our eyes, everlasting remorse would encircle us, spiritual deprivation would be our share and harrowing grief would follow us.  But if we arise in the diffusion of the Fragrances of the Paradise of Abhá, and lack all the means of material comfort, eternal benediction will be vouchsafed, heavenly exaltation will be granted and divine beatitude will be bestowed."
"Does material pursuit prevent spiritual progress?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Material affairs are of two kinds.  The first kind are those concerns that have no direct relation to life.  They contribute toward luxury, effeminacy, indolence and voluptuousness.  Indulgence in these things makes one negligent of God and stifles all traces of spirituality.  The other kind are those affairs which contribute toward the maintenance of livelihood, adding to the comfort, happiness and progress of the human family.  Spiritual powers come always to the assistance of such affairs, they increase the moral insight and responsibility of man and add to his awareness and mindfulness."
"What does 'Abdu'l-Bahá expect us to do?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "I hope that whosoever hears your words, sees your deeds and beholds your manners and behaviour, may declare that these people are real Bahá'ís-the incarnations of love and amity.  I have travelled far and wide, visited many countries, accepted many hardships and forborne many difficulties, in order that the souls may rise in service and dedicate their rest, their possessions, their wealth and their lives to the Cause of God.  I desire that they may be drawn near unto God, and this is made possible only through the promulgation of the Religion of God.  The Blessed Perfection sacrificed His country, His household, His wealth, His glory, His affluence and even His Life for the progress of the Cause of God.  If He so renounced everything, so that the heaven of the divine Faith be upheld, then the duty of the believers is plain.  I will pray in their behalf and supplicate for them the Confirmations of Bahá'u'lláh; thus just as the rays of the sun pour upon all the contingent beings, likewise the Effulgences of the Sun of Reality may so interpenetrate every fibre of their beings that each one of them may become like unto a fruitful tree.  Now is the dawn of the morn of Truth.  Those who live in the depths of the dark ravines and deep valleys do not see the first glimpses of the rising, glorious sun.  Hence they cry out:  We do not see the sunshine; we do not feel its warmth.  But when the sun ascends to the zenith of the heavens, and stands at the meridian, then the valleys and ravines will be flooded with sunshine and even the blind will feel its heat."
"What is the condition of faith!"
The Beloved One answered:  "The condition of Faith requires that man ascend to and abide in the station of sacrifice.  Without this attainment, ones faith is not perfect.  The believers must soar toward the summit of self-sacrifice.  Peruse the history of past Dispensations.  All those sanctified souls who attained to the station of renunciation and reached the highest station of glory, are those who gave up their material joy, physical pleasures, comfort, rest and even life for the sake of Truth.  These conditions of Faith the believers of Persia embodied in their lives.  They were subjected to the utmost ignominy, oppression, imprisonment, their possessions were pillaged and many of them were martyred.  Their faith was so firm that none of these tragic vicissitudes moved them.  With the utmost ecstasy they renounced their possessions and sacrificed their lives.  Nothing dismayed them.  This is the condition of faith.  When man has attained to this supreme station, then indeed his faith will be like the splendour of the Sun of Reality; it will be an emanation of the spirit of Divinity, and an effulgence of the luminary of Deity.  You pray and I will pray also, so that we may all attain to this sublime height of faith-thus universal results may issue therefrom."


V:8, 1 August 1914
page 119
Work for the sake of God and for the improvement of humanity
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Wm. Jennings Bryan in 1912.
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 13 May 1914.
While 'Abdu'l-Bahá was journeying toward California in 1912, he stopped one day at Lincoln, Nebraska, and called at the home of William T. Bryan, situated just outside of that town.  Mr Bryan was at the time campaigning in some part of the States, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá was graciously received by his charming wife and talented daughter.  In the light of recent events, a translation of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's talk (informal), which I took down while he spoke, may have more than an historical interest to his friends and to our friends:
"I have come especially to Lincoln to repay the visit you made to me during your trip around the world.  At that time I was much grieved because on your second visit to 'Akká you were prevented from coming to see me by the surveillance of the guards.  Those were difficult and troublesome days indeed!  As it was impossible then to meet you, I was longing and praying for a greater opportunity and a better chance.
Consider the power of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh!  I was a prisoner, and no one would ever have thought that I would be allowed to leave, for one moment, the fortified town of 'Akká!  But God took the chain from my neck and put it around the neck of ''Abdu'l-Hamid.  He is now surrounded with far worse sufferings than those with which he surrounded me.  I did not feel the pain of his fiendish persecutions, because I possessed the glad-tidings of the Kingdom, but he is afflicted with the pangs of regret and remorse as the result of his evil days.  These dark days have come upon him as the consequence of his darker days of tyranny and oppression.
"No one then could ever predict that a day would come when I would travel throughout the United States, and more particularly visit in your hospitable home.  From the day that I landed in America I have been anticipating meeting Mr Bryan and you.  I am very sorry that he is not here, but, praise be to God, you are his noble and worthy representative.
"I love this country with an exceeding love, for its inhabitants are a noble people and its government is fair and just.  Its citizens are enjoying the greatest amount of political and civic freedom.  In reality every soul is a real sovereign and delights in the fruit of his hard-won liberty.  No one is harassed by secret fears, and expresses his thoughts freely and with no compunction.  The sphere of the minds is made radiant with dazzling ideals, and the circle for the discussion of progressive and advanced problems of the age is as large as heaven.  Consequently I hope that this illustrious democracy may become confirmed in the establishment of Universal Peace, and Mr Bryan may become the standard-bearer of the invulnerable army of International Arbitration.  I am very hopeful that he may fulfil my expectation, because the greatest principle of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh is Universal Peace.  He wrote about it in wonderful epistles to the governments of the world, urging them to come forward and lay the foundation of International Conciliation among the religions, nations and races.
"America has demonstrated great organizing capacity in this direction, and I trust Mr Bryan will exert his utmost influence, so that the basis of the palace of Universal Peace may be firmly secured, and that through his wise and deliberate effort this sun may dawn from the horizon of the United States.
"In short, convey to your respected husband my love and warm greeting, and say to him on my behalf:  'I called at your home and received a hearty welcome from your noble wife and daughter.  I hope that before my return to the East I may have the pleasure of meeting you.  However, under all circumstances I shall never forget our meeting in 'Akká, and ever pray that you may become assisted in the accomplishment of such service as to cause you to shine like a brilliant star from the horizon of everlasting glory forever and ever.  Your aims and intentions are honourable, and their full realization conducive to the public weal.  In all your undertakings you have been aided by God in the past, and will be similarly reinforced in the future.  If the wide scope of their results are not quite manifest now, they will become evident afterward.  Work for the sake of God and for the improvement of humanity without any expectation of praise and reward.  His Holiness Christ was not appreciated in His lifetime.  The magnitude of His character and the sublimity of His teachings were duly recognized long after
page 122
His crucifixion.  The present is always unimportant, but we must make our present so filled with mighty, altruistic deeds as to assume significant weight and momentous importance in the future.  A shallow present will surely be followed by a superficial future.  Christopher Columbus and his idea, before the discovery of America, were ridiculed and scoffed at, and he spent the last days of his eventful life in poverty, shame and prison.  But now in whatever city I enter I see the houses, the parks, the streets and public buildings adorned with his picture and statue.  All the prophets, philosophers, benefactors of the human race, leaders of great reforms, scientists, inventors and discoverers were not duly appreciated in their own days; nay, rather, they were persecuted, maligned, thrown into prison and if possible put to death.  The fact is they should have honoured and adored them; but the people are not, as a whole, worthy to worship the reality; they apotheosize the phantasm-a supposed image formed by their minds."'


V:8, 1 August 1914
page 120
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
[Revealed in 1913]
To the Editor of The Christian Commonwealth, London, England.
HE IS GOD!
O thou esteemed and kind friend!
After journeying throughout the United States of America, and the great capitals and metropolis of Europe, I have returned to the East.  With the results of this journey I am most pleased and well satisfied-because I met noble people and associated with worthy souls, who are in reality the cause of honour and glory to the world of humanity.  They were learned and wise, well-informed of the realities of events and the well-wishers of the human world, especially the advocates of universal peace.
In these days the world of humanity is afflicted with a chronic disease.  It is one of bloodshed, the destruction of the divine edifice, the demolition of cities and villages, the slaughter of the noble youths of the world of humanity, children becoming orphans and women homeless and shelterless.  What calamity is greater than this?  What crime is more heinous than this?  What disease is more dangerous than this?  What folly is more direful than this?
Consider that in former days there were only religious wars, but now there are racial and political wars fought at staggering expense and sacrifice.  A thousand times alas for this ignorance, this bloodthirstiness and ferocity!  I became pleased with and grateful to the societies which are organized in the West for the promotion of universal peace, and with whose presidents, officers and members I frequently conversed.  I hope that the sphere of the activities of these societies may become from day to day enlarged; so that the lights of the higher ideals may illumine all regions, the oneness of the world of humanity be proclaimed in the East and in the West, and the world of humanity may attain to composure and well-being.  These revered souls who are the servants of the world of humanity and the promoters of the cause of universal peace shall ere long shine like brilliant stars from the horizon of mankind, flooding the regions with their glorious lights.
In the past century freedom was proclaimed, and the foundation of liberty was laid in all the western countries.  Praise be to God that the sun of justice shone forth and the darkness of despotism and tyranny disappeared.
Now in this radiant century in which the world of humanity is being matured it is assured that the Flag of Universal Peace shall become unfurled and shall wave over all regions of the globe.  This is the most great principle of Bahá'u'lláh, for the promotion of which all the Bahá'ís are ready to sacrifice their possessions and their lives.
Notwithstanding my bodily weakness and infirmity, I have travelled East and West for the last three years.  In every temple I cried out and before every audience I raised my voice for the enlistment of their sympathy.  I
page 121
declared the evils of war, and explained the benefits of Universal Peace.  I elucidated the causes which lead to the honour and glory of the world of humanity, and told them of the ferocity and bloodthirstiness of the animal kingdom.  I showed the defects of the world of nature and made an exposition of the means whereby the illumination of the world of humanity is fully realized.  I unfolded and caused the appearance of the foundation of the divine religions, and proclaimed the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  I demonstrated the existence of God by irrefutable, rational proofs, and proved the validity of all the prophets of God.  I gave utterance to my inmost conviction that the reality of the religion of God is the cause of the life of the world of humanity; it is divine civilization and pure enlightenment.
By the explanation of all these principles my object has been no other than the promotion of Universal Peace.  Praise be to God that I found hearing ears, observed seeing eyes, and discovered informed hearts.  Therefore, I am well pleased with this journey.
But on the other hand the well-wishers of the world of humanity and the advocates of universal peace must make an extraordinary forward movement, organize important international congresses, and invite as delegates most progressive and influential souls from all parts of the world; so that through their wise counsels and deliberations this ideal of Universal Peace may leap out of the world of words into the arena of actuality and practical demonstration.  It is true that this question is of paramount importance, and will not be realized easily.  However, we must take hold of every means until the desired result is obtained.
Fifty years ago whosoever talked about Universal Peace was not only ridiculed but called a visionary and utopian.  Now-praise be to God!-that at this time it has assumed such importance that everyone acknowledges that this question of Universal Peace is the light and spirit of this age.  But they state that the pathway to this much desired goal is obstructed by a number of not clearly defined stumbling blocks, which, however, can be removed by intelligently and persistently educating public opinion.
I hope the noble leaders of the world of humanity who are the divine bestowals among the people, and the means of pacification among the nations, will arise with the utmost of effort and whole-hearted resolution to extinguish this world-raging conflagration, especially now that the blood of innocent people is freely shed in the Balkan States, the lamentations and moanings of the orphans are reaching to the very gate of heaven, and the disconsolate cries and harrowing agonies of the mothers penetrate our souls with the irresistible force of human tragedy.  Thus through the endeavours of these guardians of the rights of mankind the world of creation may enjoy the repose of conciliation, the banner of Universal Peace be unfurled, the tabernacle of the one-
page 122
ness of the world of humanity be pitched, all mankind be gathered under its protecting shade, and the shining star of the eternal felicity and happiness of the world of humanity may dawn with the utmost of brilliancy from the horizon of international comity, and the luminous orb of the spiritual brotherhood of all races and tongues may illumine that united gathering of humanity with the ineffable lights of God throughout countless ages and cycles.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 19 July 1913, Port Said, Egypt.


V:8, 1 August 1914
page 122
Talk with a Jewish Rabbi
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 19 May 1914.
This morning, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went down stairs, and for nearly an hour he was walking in front of the hotel, watching the crowds of Jews who were selling cucumbers.  Then a Jewish Rabbi, noted for his learning, called on him, and he invited him to come up and sit on the veranda.  After a few preliminary questions about his own health and that of his relatives, 'Abdu'l-Bahá asked him point-blank:  "How long are you Jews going to wait for the coming of the Messiah?  Day and night you are praying in your Synagogues to hasten His coming.  Is He deaf that He does not hear your invocations?  Do you imagine that His hands are tied?  He came two thousand years ago, but you were then sound asleep and are yet afflicted with the same disease.  Why do ye not open your eyes?"
The Rabbi replied:  "The Christians claim that Jesus was the Son of God.  Now if that was really so, would we have crucified Him?"
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "The title of sonship is first claimed by the Jews.  There are many references in the Old Testament as to their being the sons of God.  In the Psalms the title of the Son is given to David.  Nay, rather, if you read Exodus, Chapter 4, v. 16, Chapter 32, v. 1-23, Chapter 7, v. 1, you will realize that the appellation of 'God' is given to persons and things.  In the Book of Job you will read also that 'there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord.'  Now you who claim to be the sons of God and the first-born of Israel rose first in rebellion against God, Moses and Aaron.  For we read in Numbers, Chapter 14, v. 2:  'And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron; and the whole congregation said unto them:  Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would God that we had died in this wilderness! and Wherefore hath the Lord brought us unto this land. ...."  Chapter 11, v. 4 and 5:  'And the children of Israel also wept again, and said:  Who shall give us flesh to eat?  We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt; the cucumbers and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions and the garlic.'  And when Moses and Aaron tried to remonstrate with you:  'All the congregation bade stone them with stones.'  Moreover you cut to pieces Isaiah the prophet, and beheaded John the son of Zechariah.  All these facts go far to show that you must not consider it an impossible thing for the Jews to crucify the Son of God."  Then with warmth and eloquence he presented to him the irrefutable proofs concerning the validity of Christ, as he did in the Synagogues of America, and how divine education is essential for the progress of any nation.  The Rabbi was dumbfounded, and could not say a word to contradict the arguments of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.


V:9, 20 August 1914.
page 130
Message from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the beloved in America, through Mr Kinney
When you enter a public meeting deliver this Message from 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
O ye friends of God!
All the people of the world today are workmen of destruction or ruin.  Everyone as though with an axe is striking at the root of the foundation of humanity.  They hold in their hands great implements of warfare and destruction.  Among the greatest is the axe of religious prejudices or sectarian bias, as well as that of racial bias; another implement of destruction is the axe of patriotic bias; another is the axe of political warfare; another implement of ruin is the persistent accumulation of commercial benefit or profit; another, the love of conquest of new domains, as is also the enmity, hatred and bigotry among the nations and tribes.  These souls are entirely inadvertent to the relations of the Kingdom of God, deprived of the relations of Unity, and despaired of the Life Eternal.  Although outwardly they may be extremely civilized, nevertheless they live in darkness.
Now, God has chosen you from among mankind, and has guided you to the Kingdom, has enlightened your hearts with the love of God, so that you may be the cause of guidance to these people, in order that you may become a cause of guidance to the world of humanity.  He has appointed you as the builders of the edifice of true manhood.  Consider with what a power of morals you must arise in order to withstand all vicissitudes.  All these people, all these promoters as workers of warfare and ruin are spreading the deeds of hatred among nations.  Now, consider with what a peace and concord you must go forth in order that you may be capable of overcoming the antagonistic forces.
It is my hope that you may prove yourselves to be the first servants of the realm of humanity, and the builders of the edifice of Divine Justice.  That you may radiate the light of the Love of God to such an extent as to be able to remove entirely the gloom and darkness of hatred, bigotry and enmity from among humanity.  Know all mankind of all nations, sects and tribes as your kith and kin.  Consider not their deeds, but only God.  Seek your reward from Him and not from them.  Know the aged of all nations as your fathers, the juveniles as your brothers and the children as your own.  No matter what lack of courtesy or what severe persecution or stern expressions of hate and unfathomable enmity you receive, you must have no excuse like the following:  "So and so has spoken unkindly about me,"  "So and so has not done me justice,"-nay, rather you must have no excuse but live according to the Divine Teachings, whether humanity prove agreeable or disagreeable, whether humanity prove hateful or loving, whether it receives you or casts you out, so that perchance you may be assisted in hoisting the standard of peace and pitching the Tabernacle of Oneness and solidarity of the world of humanity-so that this temporal life may ultimate in the Life Everlasting, and this darkness of ignorance which has pervaded the whole world may be converted into the illumination of guidance.  So that material man may become celestial, and the earthly souls become the heavenly souls; that the blind may become perceptive, the deaf attentive, the ignorant wise, the dead arise, so that, in fact, the Kingdom of God in the world of humanity may pitch its Canopy and its Tabernacle in the utmost glory."
'Abdu'l-Bahá


V:9, 20 August 1914.
page 137
"This is the time of teaching"
To the Maid-servant of God, Mrs Isabella D. Brittingham, New York.
Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter was received.  According to the clear text of the Book of Aqdas and the explicit contents of the Book of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the Interpreter of all the Works and Books of the Blessed Perfection, and not only of the Book of Aqdas.  This question is clear and evident to those who are informed of the Writings and Tablets (of Bahá'u'lláh).  Were this not the case, every one would have given an interpretation according to his own inclination and considered his interpretation preferable to the interpretation of others-this would naturally lead to great differences.  If some one interprets one verse of the Verses of God, and his interpretation is not approved by 'Abdu'l-Bahá it is not authoritative.
Now is not the time for interpretation.  This is the time of teaching.  All the believers must unloose the tongue of teaching the Cause of God.  For teaching is the cause of the guidance of all the inhabitants of the earth; teaching is the means of the illumination of mankind; teaching is conducive to the enlightenment of the world of humanity; teaching is promotive of the confirmations of the Breaths of the Holy Spirit.  This is the most great affair!
But if a soul on reading one of the blessed verses utters an explanation which does not harm the Cause, do not oppose him; for his talk is based upon explanation (elucidation) and not on interpretation.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 12 July 1914, home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


V:9, 20 August 1914.
page 138
"We have turned our faces to the Centre of the Covenant"
To his honour Mr Joseph H. Hannen, Washington, D.C.
Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou propagator of the Religion of God!
A few days ago an epistle was written thee.  Although I have not much time, yet I immediately give an answer to thy letter (written to Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb) so that thou mayst know how my heart is attached to thee.  Truly I say in the Cause of God thou art sincere.  Thou hast no other object save the good-pleasure of the Lord, and hast consecrated all thy time to the service of the Kingdom of God.  On this account I have the utmost love for thee.
Praise be to God, that the problem of meetings is solved, and there is no more any cause for dispute.  Now the believers must engage their time in teaching the Cause of God, and in the meeting no discussion should be carried on save the Cause of God.  The members of the Bahá'í Assemblies must be infinitely kind towards each other and all their deliberations must be concerning the Kingdom of Abhá.  Promiscuous discussion must be discountenanced, for these things will become the means of the lukewarmness and apathy of those who are present.  The Candles of all the meetings must be the Mention of God, the propagation of the Cause of God, the exposition of Divine Proofs and the elucidation of the Principles of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  When this condition is obtained, the meeting will become heavenly, celestial, godlike, illumined and the means of the guidance of the erring ones.  It will yield most great results.
O thou servant of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh!  Inform all the believers that perhaps a number of calumnious articles will be sent to those parts by the people of doubts.  The aim of such articles is to cause the wavering of the friends in The Covenant and The Testament.  Therefore, they should not take notice of these articles, nay, rather, return them to the senders, accompanied with concise, full and sweeping answers-that we are firm in The Covenant and the servants of the Blessed Perfection.  We do not give ear to such hearsays and incoherent statements.  We have turned our faces to the Centre of the Covenant in accord with the incontrovertible Commands of Bahá'u'lláh, the Text of the Book of Aqdas and the Text of the Tablet of the Covenant.  We have nothing to do with the people of doubts.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 6 August 1914; home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá Mount Carmel, Haifa, Syria.


V:10, 8 September 1914
page 147
Bahá'í Temple Unity Convention
[Extracts]
page 149
...
"All those who have unselfish motives will he assisted in this Cause.  They will he confirmed.  The American friends will he assisted and helped."  [Quotation from 'Abdu'l-Bahá read by Mrs Haney.]
Public meeting, Monday evening [27 April]
Mrs Haney read from Tablets and among other things said:
The Bahá'ís have a single purpose.  That purpose is to spread the Light of Truth in this dark world by word and by deed, for they are striving to walk in the path paved by the One through whom is coming to the world today all there is of Real Life.  Real Life, Light, Love-the Centre of the Covenant of God-and this Divine Educator gives forth the law first, and then he lives it himself first, thus travelling the path and paving the way for humanity.
While at Stuttgart, April, 1913, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to an artist:
"Can you paint upon the page of the world the ideal pictures of the Supreme Concourse?  The pictures which are in the ideal world are eternal.  I desire you to become such an artist.  Man can paint those ideal pictures upon the Tablet of Existence with the brush of deeds.
The Holy, Divine Manifestations are all Heavenly Artists.  Upon the canvas of creation, with the brush of their deeds and lives and action, they paint immortal pictures which cannot he found in any art museum of Europe or America-but you find the masterpieces of these Spiritual Artists in the hearts."


V:10, 8 September 1914
page 154
War and peace
Address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at Haifa, Syria
From The Christian Commonwealth.
The room at Haifa in which 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke was crowded with pilgrims, students, and friends.  At times he was very animated and even passionate.
He mentioned that a few days previously he discussed with the German Consul the ominous signs of the European War, which had not then broken out.  The Consul contended that a nation must go on increasing its military and naval expenditure if it desires to protect its growing commercial and national interests from the attacks of its equally powerful and expanding neighbours and rivals; that the greater the military equipment the more was the nation assured of making progress and developing its resources.  Other Germans and members of other nationalities who were present all agreed with the Consul.  'Abdu'l-Bahá urged that if the power of love and peace became predominant its effects would be greater than those of hate and war.  "In the world of existence there is no power as efficacious and as penetrative as the power of love.  Military power coerces and compels men into obedience through unnatural resort to force and violation, but mankind yield happily and willingly to the power of love."  If nations would use their resources in spreading love amongst mankind, in strengthening the ties of interdependence between nations and governments, and in establishing fellowship and affinity between the races, how different would be the result!
The German Consul and others raised objections to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's ideas, but he insisted that neither the conqueror nor the conquered would benefit by the present conflict.  He reminded them that the nations who were now seeking to destroy each other belong to one race and profess the same religion, and earnestly pleaded for the cessation of strife amongst the children of one Father.


V:10, 8 September 1914
page 154
Table talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
At Thonon, Lake Geneva, Switzerland, before many people of different nationalities.
O ye who are present!
How long this drowsiness and sleep!  How long this ignorance and blindness!  How long this heedlessness and misery!  How long this oppression and injustice!  How long this hatred and discord!  How long this rage of ignorant ones!  How long this grasping with frail imaginations!  How long this strife and argument!  How long this turmoil and these battles!  How long these racial prejudices!  How long these patriarchal prejudices!  How long these political prejudices!
Does it not behove the believers to have their hearts submissive through the mentioning of God?  Has God sealed the hearts and has the eye become veiled with the clouds of injustice, that the souls are not aware of God's bounty overflowing unto all?
He has created all with His Power, supplied all with His Mercy, and trained all with His Divinity.  You will not find in the creation of the Merciful any differences.  Then let us follow the glorious Lord in our good policy; dealing with justice, favour and generosity.  Let us leave oppression and wickedness.  Let us be as one family, with justice and kindness.  Let us blend as water and wine.  Let us unite as the unity of the souls.  We can not establish a policy greater than the policy of God.  We cannot find anything which is suitable to the world of humanity greater than the Bounties of God.  Then be ye guided with the examples of the Lord.  Do not change the gift of God-which is perfect unity-in this Path!
It is incumbent upon ye, O servants of God, to abandon this discord; establish harmony, love, equity, justice and mercy.
O ye who are present:  The old centuries have passed and the carpet of hatred and struggle have rolled up, because this age has shone with the Luminous Lights, glorious bounties, admirable verses, apparent signs, lights which are dispersing the darkness-alleviating pain-conductive to unity and uprooting disharmony.  Thus the eyes have seen, the ears have heard, and the hearts have comprehended.
[end of Book 3 (Vol. III, No. 19, Vol. IV, Nos 1-19, and Vol. V, Nos 1-10)]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	Christmas play written by Miss Alice Buckton.
1	NOTE:  On another occasion 'Abdu'l-Bahá stated that "the eleventh principle of Bahá'u'lláh is The Power of the Holy Spirit, by which alone Spiritual Development is achieved.  No matter how the material world may progress, no matter bow splendidly it may adorn itself, it can never be anything but a lifeless body unless the soul is within; for it is the soul that animates the body; deprived of the blessings of the Holy Spirit, the material body would be inert."-The Editors
1	Covenant-breakers
1	"Tur" and "Sinai" should not be taken literally; the first is an allusion to Mt. Sinai, which in this case means the Manifestation of God; the second, "Sinai", represents the human heart.  (Shoghi Effendi:  Light of Divine Guidance, Vol. 2, pp. 66-67)
1	Referring to a letter telling of the spiritual awakening among the people caused by 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit in America.
2	A form of the Bahá'u'lláh's name that is used as an invocation.
3	A form of the Báb's name that is used as an invocation.
1	In a Tablet to the writer of this article, 'Abdu'l-Bahá says: "I have commanded to print and publish this article in the Star of the West so that all the believers in the East and the West may read it."-The Editors.
1	A member of a tribe who settled in what is now Bulgaria in the 7th century.
1	First two paragraphs from Crisis and Victory, no. 308, pp. 155-156.
1	A parasang is about 3.5 miles or 5.5 km.
1	Refer to Tablet to Albert Windust, Star of the West, XI:19, p. 319.
1	Meaning, the people of God.
1	At this feast there were present about one hundred and twenty-five friends from the Bay cities, Portland, Seattle and Spokane.  When all were seated at the tables, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, radiant with joy, passed through the spacious rooms fragrant with flowers, speaking as he walked about.
1	NOTE:  It would seem from this statement that 'Abdu'l-Bahá desires either or both of the days to be remembered:  (1)  The day of the departure of Thornton Chase, 30 September 1912; (2) the day of the visit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the grave, 19 October 1912.-The Editors
2	Refers to a Feast given at West Englewood, New Jersey, 29 June 1913, by the Bahá'ís of New York city and vicinity, in commemoration of the Feast given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá on the same date in 1912-see the Star of the West, III:8, pp. 16-18.-The Editors.
1	i.e., that the Kingdom has come.
1	NOTE:  It should not be construed from this paragraph and other statements in this article that 'Abdu'l-Bahá is understood to be a manifestation of the Word of God, Independent of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh.  The cycle of Bahá'u'lláh extends for one thousand or thousands of years from AD 1844; but it is unique in that the "Most Great Characteristic" of the New Covenant is the appointing of a Centre, which now is in the person of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and after him shall be vested in the Universal House of Justice for a period of one thousand or thousands of years.  (See Star of the West, IV:14, p. 238.)-The Editors.
1	Tbilisi.-M.W.T.
2	Bahá'u'lláh declared:  "Verily, We have opened the seal of the 'sealed Wine'."
1	In Europe and America.
1	A tree planted by the Arabs at the end of the road to guide the traveller.  Here it refers to the Manifestation of God.
1	Wilmette is a suburb to the north of Chicago, which in the course of a few years will, undoubtedly, become a part of the metropolis.  The building to be erected is known as the Chicago Temple.-The Editors.
1	Sunday, 9 June 1912, in the small parlour of the Rittenhouse, suite 423; 'Abdu'l-Bahá sat on a sofa in the north-west corner of the room.
1	Refer to The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 172-176.
1	Refer to The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 176-182.
1	I can only assume this has something to do with a floral formula that contrasts with the barbaric and bestial.  Floral formula expresses concisely the structure (the number and arrangement by parts) of a flower by means of letters, numbers and symbols.-M.W.T.
