This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  December 2000.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
from the George Ronald Book 7 reprint of
Star of the West1
Volume XI, No. 19 (2 March 1921)
Volume XII, Nos 1-19 (21 March 1921-2 March 1922)
and
Volume XIII, Nos 1-8 (21 March 1922-November 1922)


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 315
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to J. Isbrucker
To the maid-servant of God, J. Isbrucker, Den Haag, Holland-Unto her be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art searching for truth!
Thy letter has been received.  Thou has written that Áqá Mírzá Ahmad Khán (Yazdání) has given some explanation of the Bahá'í Cause to thee.  What thou hast written is right, that the Bahá'í Religion is Truth and other institutions compared to the Bahá'í Religion are not reality and are without any great results.  Although in the sight of the people they seem to have a true foundation, yet they are like unto a fruitless tree.  There are so many trees that are apparently huge and cast a shadow, yet they are not productive of any fruit and so they will be ultimately uprooted, as thou hast observed and wilt observe.  The Divine Institution is, however, a tree whose shadow is extended over the East and the West and every moment brings forth wonderful fruits, as experience has shown.
Thou hast written, "How is it possible that one should obey and submit to an unjust government?"  By the government which should be obeyed is meant a just government which protects the rights of all its people.  It is a constitutional government which is bound by stringent laws.
Thou has written, "How is it possible to imagine a life after death?"  Verily, verily, life after death is not imaginable.  But do thou observe that it is evident man has evolved from the mineral world.  As long as he was in the mineral kingdom, he could not imagine the vegetable kingdom.  He was transferred to the vegetable kingdom.  In the vegetable kingdom he could not imagine the animal kingdom.  Before he emerged from the animal kingdom he could not imagine the stage of human reason and intelligence, that is, it was impossible for him, he did not have any knowledge thereof.
Now this earth and these trees have, by no means, any knowledge of the animal and human worlds:  they cannot imagine them, they deny existence absolutely.  While the human world is helping the animal and assisting the vegetable kingdoms, the vegetable kingdom is ignorant of it.  Similarly the human world cannot comprehend the world of the Kingdom:  it is absolutely ignorant of it, while the heavenly spirits have influence in the human world.
Do thou observe how clear this point is and yet the professors and philosophers of the world are ignorant of this reality!  The mediums are, however, speaking of the world of thought and not of reality.  But a heavenly soul who is conscious of the Divine World:  whose discerning eye is open:  who is detached from the world of nature, and has attained to spiritual power is
page 316
cognizant of the Divine World and those of the spirits.  Reality is pure spirit, it is not physical:  that is, it does not occupy space.
Ye should esteem Mírzá Ahmad Khán (Yazdání) highly, because it was he who gave ye this great glad tiding.  Through the graces of God do I hope that that country will be enkindled with heavenly Light:  that the Divine verses will be chanted, and that such souls may be confirmed as to become like unto Paul and Mary Magdalene.
Unto thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Mount Carmel, Palestine, 15 October 1920.


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 316
The final burial of the Báb on Mt. Carmel
Extracts from Mírzá Munír's letters, 'Akká, Syria, 22 March 1909.
Sunday morning, 'Abdu'l-Bahá drove from 'Akká to Haifa with his family and a few of the old believers.  Along the shore, half way between the two cities, there is now a small house which the government has built for the watch of the road.  Here, in the middle of the desert, we stopped and had luncheon; then, after an hour and a half, we reached Haifa.
But few of the believers knew that nine years ago the remains of His Holiness, The Báb, had been quietly placed in the (place of) Hazíratu'l-Quds on Mount Carmel.
A week before the Feast of Naw-Rúz (21 March) 'Abdu'l-Bahá had sent to Haifa two of the believers that they should prepare everything for the coming ceremonies.
Nine years ago a believer of Rangoon (India) sent to Haifa a large casket made of marble, beautifully worked with the Greatest Name in relief and gilded three times on each side.  It was later to hold the remains of The Báb, which had been kept 60 years (AD 59 or solar years) in safety.  Now they were to be definitely buried by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
A few weeks before some twenty men
page 317
had pulled this heavy marble casket up the mountain.  'Abdu'l-Bahá gave the last necessary instructions and it was slowly slid down into the under part of the Tomb.  This must have been performed with the help of the Kingdom of Abhá, for though the work presented great difficulty and was done by inexperienced men, everyone wondered at the ease with which it was done.
The Shrine under the ground was lighted with but one lamp.  'Abdu'l-Bahá waited until all was well finished.  He threw off his turban; he removed his shoes; he took off his coat-but what followed was so impressive that it is useless for me to attempt to picture it!  I will simply relate what happened.
Our Beloved, with his hair waving around his beautiful head, his face shining with light, looking inspired, tragic and majestic, rushed down and threw himself on his knees.  He placed the remains of The Báb in the large coffin (in the marble casket) and leaning his blessed head on the border of the coffin, he wept, wept, wept-and all wept with him.
That night the Master did not sleep.


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 317
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Shahnáz Waite1
To the maid-servant of God, Shahnáz Waite, San Diego, California.-Upon her be the Glory of God the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art the daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter has been received.  Due to scarcity of time, I write the answer briefly:  The body of man, which has been formed gradually, must similarly be decomposed gradually.  This is according to the real and natural order and Divine Law.  If it had been better for it to be burned after death, in its very creation it would have been so planned that the body would automatically become ignited after death, be consumed and turned into ashes.  But the divine order formulated by the heavenly ordinance is that after death this body shall be transferred from one stage to another different from the preceding one, so that according to the relations which exist in the world, it may gradually combine and mix with other elements, thus going through stages until it arrives in the vegetable kingdom, there turning into plants and flowers, developing into trees of the highest paradise, becoming perfumed and attaining the beauty of colour.
Cremation suppresses it speedily from attainment to these transformations, the elements becoming so quickly decomposed that transformation to these various stages is checked.
Convey on my behalf my utmost love to thy honoured husband!  I am supplicating that he may day by day attain to spiritual development.  In regard to the meeting which has been formed in that city, it is my hope that that assembly may become illumined and like unto
page 318
a rose-garden it may diffuse sweet fragrance.
Convey on my behalf respectful greetings to Miss Mary Fenn!  In reality this dear maid-servant of God has arisen in service, deserving the bestowal of the divine bounties.  I should like to write a letter to the friends of San Diego, but owing to the scarcity of opportunity I sufficed with a short supplication for them:
"O Thou the Lord of Hosts!  The city of San Diego was like a lifeless body.  Now a breath of the Spirit of Life has wafted over those regions.  Some souls have arisen from the graves of the world of nature which is the eternal death; they have been revived by the Holy Ghost, and they have started in servitude to Thy threshold.
"O thou affectionate Lord!  Bestow upon these featherless and wingless birds two heavenly wings and give unto them spiritual strength, so that they may soar in the limitless space and attain to the apex of the Kingdom of Abhá!
"O Lord!  Strengthen these feeble seedlings so that each one may develop into a fruitful tree, exhibiting the utmost freshness and liveliness.  Assist them and make them victorious, so that they may rout and vanquish the army of ignorance and misapprehension; lift up the banner of love and guidance among the people; bestow like unto the spring breeze freshness and life unto the tree of humanity; give greenness and liveliness like unto the spring shower to the meadows of that continent!  Verily, Thou art the Able and the Powerful, the Bestower and the Affectionate!"
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 2 June 1920.


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 318
Prayer for the dead and progress in the after-life
Teaching given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 1904 to Ethel J. Rosenberg.
'Abdu'l-Bahá said that through the mercy of God, not through His justice, the condition of those who have died in sin and unbelief can be changed.  We are commanded to pray that their condition may be changed.  As we have the power to pray for these souls here, so shall we have the same power in the after-life-in the Kingdom.
The power of this prayer of intercession is a special teaching of this religion.  To pray for the dead was not given as a special religious command (of the Divine Teacher), until this day of the Blessed Perfection.
The grace of effective intercession is one of the perfections belonging to perfect and advanced souls, as well as to the Manifestations of God.  Jesus Christ had the power of interceding for the forgiveness of His enemies when on earth, and He certainly has this power now.
'Abdu'l-Bahá never mentions the name of a dead person without saying, "May God forgive him", or words to that effect.
Followers of the prophets have also this power of praying for the forgiveness of souls, therefore we may not think that any souls are condemned to a stationary condition of suffering or loss, arising from absolute ignorance of God.  The power of effective intercession for them always exists.
All the people in the other world, are they not the creatures of God?  Therefore, they can progress in the other world.  As they can also receive light by supplicating here, so they can also receive light by supplicating there.  The rich in the other world can help the poor, as the rich can help the poor here.  In every world all are the creatures of God.  They are always dependent on Him.  They are not independent, and
page 319
can never be so.  While they are needful of God, the more they supplicate, the richer they become.
What is their merchandise, their wealth?  In the other world what is help and assistance?  It is intercession.
Undeveloped souls must gain progress at first through the supplications of the spiritually rich; afterwards they can progress through their own supplications.


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 319
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Albert R. Windust.
To Mr Albert R. Windust, Chicago, Illinois-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O Thou Almighty!  O Thou Forgiver!
The servant of Thy Threshold, Windust, turns his face toward the Kingdom of Abhá and begs for his father1 Thy Grace and Bounty.  O Thou Omnipotent Lord!  In this Great Dispensation Thou dost accept the intercession of the sons in behalf of their fathers.  This is one of the special infinite bestowals of this cycle.  Therefore, O Thou kind Almighty!  Accept the request of this thy servant at the Threshold of Thy Singleness and submerge his father in the ocean of Thy graces-because this son is confirmed in the accomplishment of Thy services and is displaying the utmost of effort at all time in the pathway of Thy love!  Verily Thou art the Giver, the Forgiver and the Kind!
O thou divine servant!
Be thou not unhappy on account of the death of thy father.  All of us will hasten from this world to another world.  This mundane life has no importance whatsoever.  It is our hope that in the divine world we shall find eternal union and seek everlasting fellowship.  Importance lies in this fact.  This station is obtained through faith and self-sacrifice in the path of God.  Consequently we must make an effort to obtain happiness and joyousness in the other world.
Convey the wonderful Abhá greeting to the believers.  Chicago, in comparison with the cities of America, was in advance and numerically contained more Bahá'ís.  But when the stench (vile odour) of the náqidín was spread in that city there was stagnation.  The Cause in other cities of America is progressing day unto day, but Chicago is stationary.  Therefore, strive that the sweet fragrance of the Testament and the Covenant may become diffused, the nostrils of the spiritual ones become perfumed, the banner of "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!" be unfurled and the tent of the oneness of the world of humanity be pitched.  Then ye shall observe that Chicago will become the Paradise of Abhá.  These few náqidín cannot accomplish anything worth while.  The utmost is this that they will be the means of the drooping of the believers of God in that city.  A person deprived of the spirit of the Covenant is sentenced as dead.  The dead surely disintegrate.  Therefore, breathe the spirit of the Covenant and the Testament as much as ye can in the hearts so that the souls may progress day unto day and obtain a new exhilaration.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 4 July 1913, Port Said, Egypt.


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 321
Obituary
Charles H. Greenleaf
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Through his honour Mr Chase to Mr Charles H. Greenleaf-Upon him be Bahá'u'lláh!
HE IS GOD!
O thou member of the Merciful Meeting!
Mr Chase offered the highest praise for you, and while in the Blessed Spot ('Akká) he remembered you always.
Know thou his value, for he is a kind and faithful friend, firm in the Covenant and Testament.
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!  Thy services and those of thy revered wife are acceptable in the Kingdom of Abhá, for ye have made your home a nest for the birds of God, and have engaged in teaching the Cause of God.
Ye are truthful gardeners of the Garden of God, and two agreeable servants of the Holy Threshold.
This confirmation must become the source of joy to life and repose to the conscience.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated Chicago, 4 August 1907.


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 328
Some answers regarding the Fast
Words by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in answer to questions.  From notes brought by Mrs Ella Goodall Cooper of San Francisco.
Question:  "Some of the friends in America say that the Fast is not to be observed now but in the future."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "In places where it will be the cause of trouble, such as in Bukhárá or Afghanistan, or in some of the towns in Persia, the Fast cannot be kept.  In these places if the friends fast it will be the cause of trouble, people will rise against them.  But in those places where there is safety and security it should be kept.  I fasted sixty years-the first one who fasted was I."
Question:  "In a family where it is difficult, should one attempt to keep the Fast?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Difficulty is not a preventative.  But if fasting gives rise to disharmony it is injurious."
Question:  "If it is not possible to take breakfast before sunrise, should one keep the Fast the best one can?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "If there be a preventative, it should not be kept.  As far as one possibly can, yes; but if there be any preventative at any time, no.  But after sunrise one cannot eat.  I used to Fast from sunset to sunset.  Early morning eating was difficult for me, therefore when I ate in the evening I took nothing else until the following evening."
Question:  "If one's health does not seem to permit of fasting should one keep the Fast?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "In that case the doctor must decide.  The object is not this, that not eating is not forbidden; but eating is forbidden.  This is the
page 329
object:  not eating is not forbidden, but eating is forbidden."
Question:  "When it is difficult or impossible to begin at sunrise is it possible to keep the Fast as much as one can?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "No.  After the sunrise nothing should be taken unless the doctor says that fasting would be injurious (to one's health).  In that case, one can eat at any time one wishes.  But the whole time (of fasting) is only twelve hours-this is nothing."
Question:  "Some of the friends think the life is so strenuous in America that it is not possible to work there and keep the Fast."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "In the Torah the command for fasting is from sunset to sunset for three days.  For three days and three nights they, the Jews, take nothing.  This is not obligatory.  There are Fasts of three days, seven days and nine days.  Mr X in Persia did not believe that one could fast for nine days.  He brought a Jew and imprisoned him in a room and locked the door, and did not permit anything (food or water) to be taken to him.  Indeed, his prisoner took nothing for nine days, not even water.  For six days he slept, then he could not sleep any more, but he was very weak.  But now, in this Revelation, it is for only twelve hours-very little."
Question:  "Should those men keep the Fast who are employed in mines, steel mills, etc., where it seems necessary to eat often to keep up their energy?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "This depends upon the advice of an expert doctor.  If the doctor says that fasting would be injurious to the health of such people they should not fast."
Question:  "What is the age limit for fasting?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Seventy years."
Notes taken in Persian by Mírzá Lutfu'lláh S. Hakím at the Pilgrim House, Haifa, 26 October 1920, and translated by Mírzá Azízu'lláh Khán Bahádur.


XI:19, 2 March 1921
page 330
Prayer revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Through his honour Mírzá Muhammad Labíb, the pilgrim.-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O pure God!  Refresh and vivify these young shoots of the great river of guidance, and by the breeze from the Garden of Oneness grant them joy, and by the heat of the Sun of Reality bestow upon them new life, so that they may sprout and grow up, progressing day by day; bud and bring forth leaves and fruit.
O Educator!  Give to all intelligence, grant strength and power and make them manifestations of helpfulness and favour, so that they may live among the people in the utmost degree of dignity.
Thou art the Powerful! the Mighty!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


XII:19, 21 March 1921
page 6
The Day of God
Praise be to Thee, O God of Names and Creator of Heaven!  Praise be to Thee, for Thou hast made known unto Thy servants Thy Day wherein the River of Life streamed forth from the finger of Thy Generosity and the Fountain of Revelation and Unity became manifest, by Thy Manifestation, to all who are in Thy earth and Heaven.
O God!  This is a Day the Light of which Thou hast sanctified above the sun and its effulgence.  I testify that this Day is illumined by the Light of Thy Face and by the effulgence of the dawning Lights of Thy Manifestation.
O Thou, my God, and the Beloved of my heart!  With the name of this Day Thou hast adorned Thy Tablet, which is known only to Thee.  Thou hast called it "The Day of God".  Nothing is to be seen therein but Thy Supreme Self, and naught is to be remembered save Thy sweetest Name.  Wherefore, when He appeared, the foundation of nations trembled, the learned were bewildered and the wise men were confounded, save those who came near unto Thee took from the hand of Favour the pure wine of Thy inspiration, and drank in Thy Name, saying:  "Praise be unto Thee, O Desire of the nations!  Praise be to Thee, O Beloved of the hearts of the yearning!"
Supplication revealed by Bahá'u'lláh.


XII:1, 21 March 1921
page 9
The Bahá'í Revelation
Louise R. Waite
The Bahá'í Revelation is essentially a message of peace, love, unity and light; the establishment of the oneness of humanity and the consolidation of the whole world into one home.  It declares that the visions of prophets, seers, sages and poets are in this "Great Day of God" to be fulfilled; that the dawn of "The Most Great Peace" is breaking over land and sea, and the sun of love, bringing into manifestation the deep realities of life, will soon enlighten the hearts of men.  This scientific-social-religious Revelation is rapidly spreading throughout all countries and attracting the interest of scholars, savants and religionists, both of the Occident and the Orient.  It offers to the world a teaching applicable to the modern needs of humanity, spiritually, mentally and physically.
In the year AD 1819, in the city of Shíráz, Persia, a child was born named Siyyid 'Alí Muhammad.  He was given the ordinary school education of a Persian youth, but from childhood he was renowned for his innate knowledge, for his deep piety, purity, and the beauty of his person.  He possessed a passionate and instinctive belief in freedom.  He protested fearlessly against the fanaticism that ruled his country and was a Luther in his denunciation of a blinding, bigoted faith.
In the year 1844, on the 23 May, at the age of 24, he announced publicly that "The Dawn of a New Day was breaking and the Kingdom of God was soon to be established on earth as it was in heaven"; he declared that he had been called by God to be the herald of its appearance and he assumed the title of The Báb, the term signifying "The Gate".  He began his mission by opening the minds of the people to the realities of their own religion.  Like all great messengers, he did not arise to destroy but to fulfil.  He did not tell his Muslim hearers that they had been deluded by a false prophet, but he berated them soundly, as Jesus did the Pharisees, for their hypocrisy and their adulteration and distortion of true religion.  He also explained to them from their own sacred books that a Mihdí should come.  To quote his own words, "In the past, whenever a prophet or divine teacher was needed on earth, God raised up such an one, bearing a book containing a divine revelation, and He will do the same in the future whenever there is need."
From the moment of the announcement of his mission he obtained a hearing, and in a short time a following, both among the most cultured and learned as well as in the unlettered and poorer classes.  He taught his followers that the "Promised One" of all the ages, of whom he was but the herald, would soon appear; and that all of his writings were to give place to the revelation of this World Teacher, "he whom God should manifest".  He pro-
page 10
claimed that in nineteen years he would "come forth".
The rapid spread of his teachings alarmed the Persian Muslim teachers and priests, as well as the state, and through their intrigues he was thrown into prison and finally shot at Tabríz, in July, 1850.  His brief mission of six years was one of heroic endeavour, and his martyrdom one of the supreme tragedies of modern times.
The Báb's doctrines were simple.  He taught a pure faith in the One God; he inculcated a high morality, and declared that women were equal in all respects to men.  He appointed eighteen disciples to spread the message of the "coming of the Kingdom", one of whom was a woman, the far-famed and beautiful Qurratu'l-'Ayn, who was the Joan of Are of her age and country, and who was also martyred for her faith.
The Báb had constantly exhorted his followers not to reject this Great One when he appeared, as has been the custom of former religions and peoples upon the advent of a new manifestation or divine teacher.  Two years after his martyrdom, in 1852, all of the leading Bábís were seized and imprisoned, and then commenced a terrible outburst of persecution and martyrdom of the Bábís, for which there is scarcely a parallel to be found in history.  The number of those martyred for their faith is variously estimated at from thirty to forty thousand men, women and children.
Amongst the leading Bábís imprisoned at this time was one whom the government regarded as the chief leader, Mírzá Husayn 'Alí, born in Núr, Persia, 12 November 1817; a wealthy Persian nobleman, a descendant of pure Aryan race (called Núrí or "a progeny of light")  During his youth his father died and left him, as the eldest son, at the head of the family.  In his home he was instructed in the Persian language, but wisdom and the knowledge of the deepest spiritual mysteries were revealed to him through meditation and inspiration.  On account of his good deeds he was called "the father of the poor".  He became afterward universally known as Bahá'u'lláh ("The Glory of God").  During his imprisonment in Tihrán he was confined in a dungeon, with a heavy chain about his neck, attached to five or six other prisoners, for a period of four months.
The government, after a time, being unable to substantiate any charges against him, released him.  Having confiscated his property, they exiled him with his family and a few of his followers to Baghdád, outside the borders of Persia and under the Sultán's domain.  In this neighbourhood he resided for nearly eleven years, two of which were spent alone among the 'Iráq mountains, where the light of inspiration and revelation illumined his soul.  He worked out a plan of salvation and regeneration for the triune being of humanity.  All of the great universal movements of today were conceived and set forth by him through clear revelation years before their echoes reached the minds and hearts of men in general.  The basic principles of being are set forth in his writings with power and force; they are living spiritual principles, for they appeal to and satisfy the soul and meet all of the moral, economical, scientific and spiritual needs of life.  These truths are the foundation of the Bahá'í Revelation.
In 1863 the mullás, again becoming alarmed at the amazing spread of the Bahá'í faith, through intrigue and misrepresentation persuaded their government to demand of the Sultán that he be exiled to Constantinople, and he was accordingly sent there with his family and immediate followers.  On this journey Bahá'u'lláh with his people encamped for twelve days in the Garden of Ridván, outside of Baghdád, and there he announced himself, first to his eldest son, 'Abbás Effendi, who chose the name of 'Abdu'l-Bahá ("the Servant of God"), and then to his followers, as the Mani-
page 11
festation whom the Báb had heralded.  After studying the dates, his followers found that he had made his declaration on the last day of the nineteenth year after the Báb had declared his mission.
After some months residence in Constantinople the Ottoman government banished Bahá'u'lláh and his followers to Adrianople.  Here he lived and taught for five years, his followers ever increasing and his teachings spreading.  The name of the movement was then changed to the Bahá'í Revelation in recognition of Bahá'u'lláh.
The government, unable to crush out the ever growing interest in and conversion to this New Light of Truth, in 1868 exiled these holy souls to 'Akká in Palestine, Syria (the same 'Akká, or Acre, of the Crusades, more anciently known as Ptolemais), its antiquated ramparts and crumbling fortifications, the scenes of some of the bloodiest combats of military history, from the time of the Phoenicians down to the Napoleonic war in Syria, all testifying to an earthly power of the past.  Thus 'Akká, so intimately connected with the Bahá'í Revelation today, is most closely associated with constructiveness, spiritual power, unity, love and peace, the glad tidings of which were sent forth to all the world by Bahá'u'lláh from behind its prison walls.
At the time of Bahá'u'lláh's arrival there the fortress of 'Akká was used as a prison and a place of exile, to which criminals of the worst type were sent.  The deadly, fever-stricken spot slowly but surely accomplished the destruction of most lives confined within it.  The authorities hoped that these poor exiles would not long survive their imprisonment.  For two years after their arrival these pure, godlike people, seventy in number, were confined in two rooms, where they suffered incredible hardships.
From 'Akká Bahá'u'lláh sent forth "the call" to the crowned heads of the world, summoning them to "unity and brotherhood", and declaring that the "dawn of The Most Great Peace" had come.
Bahá'u'lláh departed this life in 1892; before which he told all of his followers by word of mouth and in his writings that after his departure they must turn their faces to the Centre of his Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who was to be considered as one with him.  He declared that his teachings would be built up and carried forward by this son.
The Báb, Bahá'u'lláh, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá are the names of spiritual offices in the great world hierarchy, not the names of individuals.  Each world race has its spiritual teachers under a different title.  These three appear in the heaven of revelation as the Morning Star, the Sun, and the Evening Star, or the Herald, the Revelator, and the Interpreter of Divine Truth.
'Abdu'l-Bahá was born 23 May 1844, in the city of Tihrán, Persia, on the same day that the Báb arose in Shíráz and declared the coming of the Kingdom of Peace on earth.  All his life, from the age of nine, has been one of sorrow, persecution and imprisonment-forty years a prisoner and an outcast.  When we consider the persecution and martyrdom of these "men of God", and the world-wide effect upon humanity of their lives and teachings, we find the ever-recurring cry, "Crucify him, crucify him!" that has rung down the ages whenever a messenger of truth has appeared.  This alone, to an unbiased mind, should prove that their revelations were of God.  Bahá'u'lláh wrote:
"Is it possible that a reasonable man would make a declaration rendering him ridiculous to the world unless that man were sustained by God?  They have made conjectures that I have had in mind the immortalizing of my name, but is it possible that one uncertain of living until tomorrow would work for nothing but his own glory?  I have
page 12
always seen the sword hanging over my head."
The fundamental principle of faith in the Bahá'í teachings is the need of a Divine Teacher, one who comes speaking "with authority".  As a garden without the training of a gardener becomes choked with weeds, and the flowers give forth no fragrance, so man, the greatest of all God's handiwork, is in need of an educator, a divine gardener; as he has material and intellectual faculties which need development, so has he latent spiritual faculties, God-given potentialities, which must be quickened and brought forth into expression.  Such spiritual educators were Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Christ and Muhammad, of the past, and his followers believe such is Bahá'u'lláh of today.  All of these were founders of great religions and revealed sacred books.
Students who have made a study of these religions tell us that what is most striking in their teachings is not that they announced new ideas that had never before been revealed to man, but that they gathered up into one definite whole all the various scattered rays of truth which is ever illuminating the world.  Just as a lens or burning-glass gathers together the rays of sunlight into one powerful beam, so these divine teachers become as it were a focused effulgent centre for the diffused rays of truth.  Some of the noteworthy and progressive teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are:
First:  The oneness of humanity.  "Ye are all leaves of one tree and the fruits of one arbour."
Second:  Independent investigation of truth.  "No man should follow blindly his ancestors.  Each must see with his own eyes, hear with his own ears and investigate truth in order that he may find it."
Third:  The foundation of all religions is one.  "The foundation of all the divine precepts is one reality.  It must needs be reality, and reality is one and not multiple."
Fourth:  Religion must be the cause of unity among mankind.  "Every religion should be the cause of unity and productive of the life everlasting.  It is not for enmity or hatred, tyranny or injustice.  If religion be the cause of enmity and rancour, if it be the cause of alienating men, then assuredly its non-being were better than its being."
Fifth:  Religion must be in accord with science and reason.  "Religion must be reasonable; it must agree with science perfectly, so that science shall sanction religion, and religion sanction science.  Down to the present day man has accepted a thing because it was called religion, even though it were not in accord with human judgement and reason."
Sixth:  The equality of men and women.  This is peculiar to Bahá'u'lláh, for all other religions have placed men above women.  "Daughters and sons must follow the same form of study and the same education alike."
Seventh:  The abolishment of all prejudices of whatever nature.  "All the prophets of God have come to unite the children of men and not to disperse them; consequently we must throw away all racial, patriotic and religious prejudices.  We must become the cause of unity of the human race."
Eighth:  Universal peace.  "That all men shall make peace; that there be universal peace amongst governments, races, religions and the denizens of all regions."
Ninth:  All mankind should partake of knowledge and education.  "The education of each child is obligatory."
Tenth:  The solution of the economic question.  No religious books of past prophets speak of the economic question, while this problem has been thoroughly solved in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Certain regulations are revealed which insure the welfare and well-being of all humanity.
Eleventh:  A universal language.  "A universal language shall be adopted which shall be taught in all the schools and academies of the world."  Thus everyone shall need but two languages, his national tongue and the universal one.
Twelfth:  A universal tribunal.  "A tribunal which shall be under the protection of God and under the protection of all men.  Each nation must obey the decisions of this tribunal."
In the year 1908, at the re-establishment of the Turkish Constitution, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, with many other prisoners and exiles, was declared free, and is now no longer under military surveillance.  Since his release he has made two tours, the first to Europe, in 1911, and later a return trip to Europe and [then to] America.  He came forth from prison with whitened hair and face furrowed with the lines of many sorrows, yet brilliant with the light of love.
Wherever he goes he spreads the gospel of love and light, of unity and peace.  It is not so much the crystalline purity and reasonableness of his ideas, founded upon his father's teachings, that affect the listener, but the wonderful spirituality of his personality.
Today, amid all the suffering of his people, he lives in his own home on Mount Carmel, the "holy mountain of God".  Famine, war and pestilence surrounded him on all sides, yet he did not flee.  Amid all the devastation of the world war, when his heart was broken by "man's inhumanity to man", he still held aloft the torch of assurance and divine Love.  He says:  "The foundation of all religions is One; now is the time that all of us may embrace the law of peace, and treat each other with honesty and straightforwardness.  Let all racial supremacy be done away with; let political expediencies be discontinued, and let the love of country be superseded by the love of the world."


XII:1, 21 March 1921
page 13
What 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to five American Christian missionaries
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
'Abdu'l-Bahá to five young American teachers attending a Missionary Conference in the vicinity of Mt. Lebanon, and who came to see him, said, when asked his opinion of the United States:  "The true, liberal, religious spirit is more in evidence in America than in Europe; from an ethical standpoint they are far ahead of European nations.  The American people are as a whole, a religious people.  They investigate the Reality, and are free from the fetters of prejudice.  The Europeans are not deeply religious, and they have their prejudices.  The American are an inventive nation.  In the light of their manifold inventions, their services to the world of humanity are considered as incalculable."
Question:  "Is there any leader or head in the Bahá'í Religion?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The Bahá'ís are a community of co-operative servants, they have no leader.  Their only leader is God.  They have no ordained ministers or priests.  Whosoever hears and believes in the principles of this Cause, it is required of him to convey this Mes-
page 14
sage to others.  The Bahá'ís have no organized missionary headquarters.  Because their cardinal creed is the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, they have no theological wrangles and no metaphysical speculations."
Question:  "Do the Bahá'í teachings renovate the individual private life?  Or are they only a set of principles for the adjustment of general relations between men, without the necessary requirement of personal regeneration?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are the breaths of the Holy Spirit which create men anew.  Personal amity, both in private and public, is emphasized and insisted upon."
Question:  "What do the Bahá'ís believe?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "They believe that mankind must love mankind, that universal amity must be practised; that dead dogmas must be thrown away; that we are at the threshold of the Era of Independence; that we must forget prejudice and that universal love must, become the dominant note of the Twentieth Century."
Question:  "What do the Bahá'ís teach?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "They teach that the internal, spiritual idea is the same in all the religions; that a unique general plan underlies the foundation of the past faiths; that priest-craft has discredited the Religions of God; that the active, divine idea is hidden under the encrustation of dead ecclesiasticism; that religion must shuffle off its tattered garments of medieval ages and put on the robe of the Universal Precepts of God."
Question:  "What is the Bahá'í Faith!"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Trust in God.  Be kind to their fellow-men, fill the world with the spirit of love.  The spirit of faith in a Bahá'í is very strong.  His trust is in the grace of the Holy Spirit."
Later, about the history and teachings of the Cause, etc., they said to 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "We (the Missionary World) are watching with great interest the progress of this movement, for it seems to us it is advancing with great rapidity without the usual organization, which to us hard-headed Americans is so essential and necessary.  We are watching to see what will be the objective aim of this Cause."
'Abdu'l-Bahá, replied:  "The objective aims are:  The Oneness of the world of humanity, Universal Peace, Universal Love, International Co-operation and reciprocity; the promotion of the principles of human consanguinity and solidarity, and the establishment of the Kingdom of God, first, in the hearts of man and then upon earth.  These are the noble objective aims.  Are you not in sympathy with them?  Will you not also do your utmost to hasten that day?  What harm is there in this?  We are working day and night for the realization of these ideas and purposes.  God and His servants are also pleased with these souls who are serving under a different flag and in a different camp to actualize these principles of humanity."
After several questions 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to them:  "The doors of colleges and universities must be wide open to the adherents of all religions and the members of all nationalities, so that these people from widely scattered countries may meet and associate with each other in those educational institutions, learn each other's customs and habits, interchange their ideas and discard their purposeless prejudices.  In this way these young men and women will grow up with the ideas of world patriotism.  There are a number of Missionary Colleges in the East that are dogmatically sectarian, trying all the time to teach the students the falsity of their parents' religions and the grandeur and sublimity of Christianity.  The net result has been a woeful failure, for generally the students turn out of the college with no religion.  Thus it has been witnessed
page 15
that when a missionary teacher tries to undermine, either with bitter antipathy or indirect references, the religions of the students in which they have been brought up, he is unconsciously undermining the religion of Christianity.
"In short, in this Radiant Century, the Sun of Reality has dawned, scattering its bright rays upon all humanity.  We are beginning to realize that this globe is one home and all men are brothers and sisters, the members of one family, the stars of one heaven, the tents of one camp, the pearls of one necklace, the trees of one garden and the signs of the mercy of the Almighty.
"Creationally there are no bad people; they are all good.  It is only when we subvert the original plan concerning our progress that the outcome is a distorted, abnormal state of being.  The tree of humanity is one and is planted by God.  The origin is one and the end must also be one."


XII:1, 21 March 1921
page 27
Tablets to Bahá'ís in America received in 1919
Maud Thompson
To the maid-servant of God, Mrs Maud Thompson, Baltimore, Maryland.-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou daughter of the Kingdom!
Thy letter was received.  Thou hast praised the Convention of this year (1919).  This Convention in future shall acquire a great importance.  It shall reach a point that all the Conventions of the world shall assume a lowly and submissive attitude toward this Convention, for its basis is the oneness of the world of humanity, universal peace, love and harmony among all men, equality in rights among all people, benevolent deeds and the shining forth of the light of Truth.  Undoubtedly it shall increase daily in power.
Praise ye God, therefore, that He has assisted in the establishment of such a Convention. ...
I hope that through the infinite bounties or God all thy family may be illumined and assisted.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, Haifa, Palestine; 16 July 1919.
Maud Gaudreaux
To the maid-servant of God, Maud Gaudreaux, Yonkers, New York-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!  Thy letter dated 26 November 1918, was received with the divine assistance.  I hope your gathering will widen from day to day, and will increase in union and harmony; will draw to itself the bounty of the Kingdom; will be the cause of the appearance of the oneness of the world of humanity; will be kind to all religions and the well-wisher of all races.  If in this coming summer thou goest to Green Acre it will be highly favourable
page 28
and if thou art confirmed in contributing to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, it will be greatly praiseworthy.  I pray God that thy respected husband, the children, and thy relatives will be guided under the divine protection and will be kept safe and glad in this world as well as in the realm of the Kingdom.
Convey on my behalf the utmost kindness to the friends Helen Whelock, Nellie Lowes, Elise Weil, Elizabeth L. Stevens, and Ethel Adams.  My hope is that ye may unanimously be confirmed in service to the world of humanity.  There is not time to write more.
Upon ye be greeting and praise
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Rabbání, 9 February 1919, Haifa, Palestine.
Mr and Mrs Latimer
A prayer for Mr James and Ruhaní Latimer, care of his honour, Mr George Latimer-Upon them be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O ye two souls of the Kingdom!
Turn your faces to the Kingdom of the merciful One and address this prayer:
Prayer
O thou Compassionate God!  We were heedless, Thou hast made us heedful.  We were slumbering and Thou hast awakened us.  We were thoughtless, Thou hast made us thoughtful.  We had no share and portion from the supreme bounty, Thou hast given us full share therefrom.  We were wanderers, Thou hast shown us the right path.  We were thirsty, Thou hast quenched our thirst.  We were deprived, Thou hast made us intimates with Thy mysteries.
Praise be unto Thee, that such a bounty has been realized and such a guidance has been made possible.  Confirm us in firmness and steadfastness that we may be self-sacrificing in service to the Kingdom and may attain our loftiest aim.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Haifa, Palestine, 26 November 1919.


XII:3, 28 April 1921
page 51
The latter days of Bahá'u'lláh
George Latimer
"Blessed is the one who has visited 'Akká, and blessed is the one who has visited the Visitor of 'Akká.  From the Traditions of Muhammad.
Late one September afternoon in the year 1868 the entire population of the little city of 'Akká, on the coast of Palestine, gathered on the shore to witness the arrival of several small sail boats containing some seventy or more prisoners of the Turkish government.  Little did they realize, as these victims of Muslim oppression were led through their jeering midst to the prison barracks, that this event would be far-reaching and world-affecting in its results-so momentous in its consequences that the former historic events which marked 'Akká, the battle-ground of the Crusades, would well-nigh disappear in comparison.  'Akká, once the seat of war and bloodshed, the goal of conquest of such mighty warriors as Richard Cœur de Lion, Philippe Auguste, Napoleon, Sir Sydney Smith and Ibráhím Páshá, was suddenly transformed to become the home of the Prince of Peace.
In more recent years, with its fortifications in ruins, 'Akká had become the depository for thieves, cut-throats, suspects and the religious and political prisoners of the Ottoman government, because of its well-known foul and unsanitary conditions and death-dealing diseases.  But with the arrival of this little band of exiles, who preferred anything rather than separation from their leader, Bahá'u'lláh, this ancient and ruined town became the centre of world destiny, a Mecca to the Orient and Occident alike, mirroring forth such splendour and light as to make it appear as the "New Jerusalem".
The Star of Bethlehem shines from age to age over the haven longed for by the tried and persecuted pilgrim in his search for the pathway to the Kingdom of God.  The inspiration of the weary traveller is the faith and certainty that this star shines for all mankind.  The city over which it appears changes from cycle to cycle, but the light it reflects is always the same.  The city in its splendour becomes a veritable paradise and refuge for the searcher.
The same intense longing that impelled the three Wise Men two thousand years ago, later manifesting itself again in the pilgrimage to the Kaaba, has one more returned to possess the heart of the sincere seeker, drawing him to 'Akká, the prison home of Bahá'u'lláh, the Glory of God.
How strange the working of fate!  The effort of man is ever exerted to prevent the shining of the star and the spreading of the Light of God by His chosen ones; yet these same efforts become the means of the fulfilment of prophecy and the establishment of the Cause of God in the world.  Thus, as the crucifixion of Christ became his everlasting sovereignty, the defeat of Muhammad his undying renown, likewise the exile and incarceration of Bahá'u'lláh have become his majestic splendour and eternal glory.
As the colour of the leaves announce
page 52
the change of seasons, so the colour of man's thoughts mark the progress of his soul.  The divine palette with its variegated hues is ever found in the city of the star, and the star always shines over the Holy Land, the home of the prophets.  The soul of the pilgrim is the canvas prepared for the handiwork of the Creator.
It is difficult to describe the effect produced by the matchless blending of colours in the masterpiece of the artist; it is even more difficult to portray the emotions and sensations of the heart of the pilgrim when he visits the sacred abode of the Manifestation of God.  As the pilgrim enters 'Akká he feels his soul transcending the earthly ties to the realm of spiritual susceptibilities.  The framework of the picture, such as the life and customs of centuries gone by, vanishes and the design itself commences to unfold.
Passing over a moat, the traveller suddenly finds himself in the courtyard of the prison barracks.  His pulse quickens, his whole being attunes itself to higher vibrations.  The first glance discloses the horse stalls where the little band of exiles were crowded together.  Then the small room, now in ruins, where Bahá'u'lláh was cast that first night of his arrival, is seen.  The detail of the picture becomes clearer as he mounts a steep and narrow stairway to the room of stone flags without bed and chair, where Bahá'u'lláh, was confined for two years.  What lofty thoughts must have surged here!  Glancing across the inner court, a barred window is noticed.  Here Bahá'u'lláh was wont to stand that the foot-sore and weary pilgrims from distant Persia might catch a fleeting glimpse of him from the plain of 'Akká, now called "the worshipping place of God".  The masterpiece has expanded but the work is not yet finished.
The pilgrim leaves the city and travels over the desert plain to the Ridván Garden.  Here Bahá'u'lláh spent the latter years of his life perfecting the design of the Creator.  Again the wanderer sees prophecy literally fulfilled, for "the desert has rejoiced and blossomed as the rose".  The Ridván, rich in foliage and myriad blossoms, breathes
page 53
forth the glad-tidings of a New Day.  The picture now assumes colour and feeling, yet the final expression, the finishing touches which added the soul-stirring qualities are yet to come.
After a short journey, the pilgrim enters the Bahjí Palace, the last resting place of Bahá'u'lláh on earth, and continues on to the sacred shrine.  All thought of time and place vanishes as the seeker reaches the Place of Visitation, and enters into communion with his Lord.  The masterpiece in all its matchless beauty is imprinted with glowing radiance on the canvas of his soul.  The Holy Grail has been attained, the design completed; a heavenly vista is revealed.  New emotions and new aspirations are created, great love expands the heart, knowledge and certainty take the place of doubt and fear, the great longing has been satisfied, the search rewarded and the pilgrimage ended-the transformation is complete.
The pilgrim departs with the intense desire of finding other souls upon which this masterpiece can be reproduced; the imprint of the Spirit is eternal.
__________
Amid such surroundings it is wonderful to hear 'Abdu'l-Bahá relate some of the graphic events which marked the latter days of Bahá'u'lláh's life as unique and peerless in the annals of history.  It is the lot of every prisoner to be meek and oppressed, yet Bahá'u'lláh, under the yoke of two powerful and despotic rulers, shows forth the utmost majesty, while yet their prisoner, proving that the only prison is the prison of the self.  Such was his majesty that for five years the Governor of 'Akká, his jailer and keeper, begged for admittance to His Holy Presence without avail.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá tells the story to the pilgrim:
"For nine years, the first two of which were passed in strict confinement in those barracks, the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) did not leave the gates of the building and for quite a long time he did not leave his room.  Seventy of his followers, men and women, healthy and sick, old and young, were confined in those barracks, at the gate of which stood ten or twelve gendarmes, while two of them accompanied one of the friends who left the gates every morning in order to provide the daily means of subsistence (for the friends).
"It was toward the end of this period of nine years that His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh made the following remark:  'I have not gazed at verdure for a long (period of) time.'  This remark reaching my ears indirectly, I started immediately outside the city gates, notwithstanding the repeated prohibitive declarations that had been made in successive farmáns (orders) with respect to
page 54
our trespassing the limits of the city walls.
"The next day with some friends and officials, I went out again, unmolested and unopposed, although the guards and sentinels stood on both sides of the city gates.  The third day I arranged a sumptuous banquet, stretched a royal table under the pine trees of Bahjí, and gathered around it the notables and officials of the town.  I then arranged a sort of landau [this was the first carriage to be seen in 'Akká] and prepared the house Mazra'ih, which lies a couple of miles north of Bahjí.  This house was nearly in ruins, but I arranged with its proprietor, who was one of our deadly enemies, to expend its rent for its restoration.  Gardens, a courtyard, a grove of fruitful trees were soon arranged and the whole site looked as if it were a Paradise of Eden.
"Then I solicited the Blessed Beauty to move to that place for I knew every barrier would break down, every resistance would be destroyed, every obstacle removed as soon as his divine will passed a certain decision.  The sure and determined answer that I received to my repeated appeals was this:  'I am a prisoner; I am confined.'  At last I arranged for a certain muftí, a clever, humorous and kind-hearted person, who was greatly favoured by Bahá'u'lláh, to intercede, to fall on his knees, to grasp his blessed hand, to take hold firmly of the hem of his garment and not to leave until he would secure the blessed consent.  He did this and his earnest solicitations made him at last successful.  He then gave to me joyfully the news of His Holiness' consent.  In spite of the strict farmán of 'Abdu'l-'Azíz, which prohibited my meeting and association with the Blessed Perfection, and our residence was in the same house, I drove with him in that closed carriage with no one to approach or raise a word of objection, until we reached the palace of Mazra'ih.
"Two years elapsed in a charming, lovely and highly contrasting environment until it was decided to move to Bahjí.  This palace was thickly occupied, the upper story reserved for the proprietor's household and the lower rooms crowded with the inhabitants of 'Akká who streamed out to pass the warm season beyond the hot, oppressive and nauseating atmosphere of the city.  It was indeed providential that a disease, highly contagious, broke out in the midst of these people and soon the palace was evacuated, the proprietor himself fleeing in distress and ready to offer the house free of charge to any applicant.  When we moved to the palace after having fixed an exceptionally low rent, the doors of majesty and of ideal, eternal
page 55
sovereignty were flung wide open to our face.
"Outwardly a prisoner, once enchained and once under the drawn sword, yet in reality wielding an influence and exerting a power over his friends and entourage, whether foes or followers, that kings might envy and emperors sigh for in vain!  Governors and mayors, generals and local officials would repeatedly request the favour of attaining the court of His Presence, but this favour would not be granted.  At last the governor-general of the city implored this favour on the ground of his being ordered from higher authorities to meet, in company with a certain general, the Blessed Perfection.  The request being granted, the general, who was a corpulent, fleshy person, was so humbled and struck by the majestic, awe-inspiring presence of His Holiness that he remained kneeling on the ground very close to the door, although that posture was unbearably difficult for him.  It was only after repeated insistence of Bahá'u'lláh that the General complied with the blessed wish and accepted the nargileh [pipe or hubble-bubble] that was offered him, and then he only touched it with his lips, put it aside, crossed his arms, dropped his head and sat in silence close to his companion.
"Other and numerous instances go to show that it was not confinement but sovereignty which was exhibited by the Blessed Beauty's conduct and activities.  The conduct of friends, the humbleness and sense of reverence and awe which they manifested, the officials and notables, the bustle that reigned outside and around the place of Bahá'u'lláh's residence, the influx of pilgrims and outsiders, the spirit of devotion and service that was manifest everywhere; the majestic and royal countenance of the Blessed Perfection, the effectiveness of his words, the power of his command, the extent of his retinue, the number of his zealous devotees-all these assured beyond the shadow of a doubt, a certain Muslim orderly of a Bahá'í pilgrim who had come from Persia to meet Bahá'u'lláh.  He thought, assuredly this person wields a prestige parallel to if not surpassing that of Násiri'd-Din Sháh.  He was at least convinced that this mighty personage was not a king but a prisoner in exile.
"This is why it has at repeated instances been stated by His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh that 'Verily, verily, the most wretched prison has been converted into a Paradise of Eden.'"
This talk of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was taken from Shoghi's diary, dated 13 June 1919.


XII:3, 28 April 1921
page 57
Recent Tablets to Bahá'ís in America
Arthur S. Agnew
His honour, Mr Agnew-Upon him be the Light of God, the Most Luminous!-through his honour, Mr Albert R. Windust, Chicago.
HE IS GOD!
O thou spiritual person!
As far as thou art able, do thou practice self-sacrifice in the path of His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh-May my soul be sacrificed for His friends-and this self-sacrifice is the greatest cause of success (prosperity), because today every soul who approaches His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, one step, verily doeth he rear up his flag on the zenith of the Kingdom, and like unto a star shineth he from the horizon of Reality.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 15 June 1924.
Albert R. Windust
To his honour, Mr Albert R. Windust-Upon him be the Light of God, the Most Luminous!
HE IS GOD!
O thou true friend!
Through the graces of the Sun of Reality do I supplicate that rays of assistance and favour be projected upon then, and that thou together with his honour, Mr Agnew, may live in utmost attachment, love, firmness and steadfastness.
But as regards the writer of the Persian section of the Star of the West.  I have this in mind, Whenever somebody is found, I shall send him.  I am beseeching a new confirmation and especial grace and favour for thee.
Upon thee be the Light of the Most Luminous!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 15 June 1920.
George Latimer
To Mr George Latimer, Portland-Unto him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Praise be unto God, that thou wert confirmed to visit many of the Assemblies and see the attractive faces of the friends.
His honour Fádil is verily of the utmost sincerity, without any desire save service to the Cause of God.  Miss Martha Root is a loved maid-servant of God.  My hope is that Miss Martha Root and Mrs Lucy Wilson will be assisted and confirmed to attain to perfect spirituality and enlightenment.  Mr Agnew is a truthful servant of God and Mr Wilhelm self-sacrificial.  Of course you see how they are, at every assembly, confirmed to deliver eloquent speeches.
Do thou always keep up thy correspondence with the friends in Germany, Japan and Australia.  I am praying to God to enable some active teachers to arise and give light unto the horizons of America.  The erection of the monument to the memory of his honour Áqá Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl is very appropriate and advisable.
page 58
Convey the utmost love, on my behalf, to Mr and Mrs Weed and family.  Verily they have done their best, with the utmost sincerity, in the formation of meetings.  This service has been accepted in the Kingdom of Abhá.
His honour Mr Remey, that luminous person and heavenly man, is occupied in service in Germany and Holland.  He does not rest for a moment and does not breathe but to raise the call to the Kingdom of God.
Unto thee be the Glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, 17 September 1920.
O. O. Wolcott
O. O. Wolcott, Spokane, Washington-Upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art confirmed by the grace of the Kingdom!
Thy long letter has been perused.  Thou hast given convincing answers to the questions of the lawyer.  The souls who are free from every tie and are baptized with the Holy Spirit, while speaking, are inspired with divine inspirations.  This is why it is said that (when) you are speaking you should not think:  you should speak what the heart is inspired to.
The teachings are from His Most High, The Father.  The Son is the Expounder of the teachings of the Father.  Therefore, the teachings of both are one.  As to the line of poem which is mentioned in the Seven Valleys, it is from His Highness 'Alí, "Dost thou imagine that thou art an insignificant molecule, while in thee is enwrapped the Great Universe (Macrocosm)?"
He says, "Thou shouldst not look at the smallness of thy body which is cast out of the dust and is simply a handful of earth; nay, rather shouldst thou look at that pure spirit.  which is inclusive of all the lofty attributes, and has some affinity to this body."  Because that pure spirit is one of the graces of God and is inclusive of all the virtues of humanity.  This pure spirit is like unto the light which is potential and in the candle and gets enflamed with the fire of the love of God, then streams its light in the stage of visibility.
The Jewish doctors have interpreted the Bible according to their own selfish desires, and not that they have discovered the Truth.
But regarding the word Israel, this is the title of Jacob himself and not that of his children.  Then from the word of "Baní Israel" Baní (descendants) was dropped and they sufficed with the word "Israel".  In encyclopaedia there are many such examples.  The descendants of Ham, for example, are called "Ham", the descendants of Yáfis are called "Yáfis".  The descendants of the Turks are named "Turks", and those of Yaarub are called "Arab".  Examples such as these are many.  Afterward the word Israel was used to denote the "people of God" as it is mentioned in the Bible, i.e., the nations of God.  Thus it was gradually generalized as to denote all the souls who accepted the religion of God.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 4 June 1920.
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
To his honour Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb-Upon him be Bahá'u'lláh!
HE IS GOD!
Thy letter written 19 May 1920, duly received.  Notwithstanding the lack of time I answer the matters referred therein.
His honour Fádil-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!-whenever he finds an opportunity, if he writes an article for the Star of the West, unquest-
page 59
ionable it will be good, nay rather effective; likewise whenever you find an opportunity you write also articles.  The duty of his honour Fádil, is to travel in all parts of America and raise the call of the Kingdom of Abhá in all the meetings, churches and gatherings.  If he finds time and an occasional opportunity he may write an article.
A cablegram was forwarded to you that if possible on important occasions and cities you must become the associate and intimate of his honour Fádil; especially at the time of his meeting with the scholars, philosophers and professors, unquestionably you must be present.
His honour Manúchihr Khán, must strive by day and night so that he may obtain the utmost proficiency in the English language.
Regarding the Bahá'í Library and the magazine Reality, truly I say they have great expenses.  No matter how much Mr Deuth may show self-sacrifice he cannot meet all the expenses.  Therefore the believers of God from amongst the rich, must show magnanimity regarding 'this matter; so that this library and this magazine may continue forever.  It is my hope that a heavenly blessing may be vouchsafed.
In Green Acre, unquestionably, you must be the associate of his honour Fádil.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


XII:4, 17 May 1921
page 67
The temple of universal religion-the fundamental oneness of all existing faiths
Address of Jinábí Fádil, delivered at the Bahá'í Congress, at Auditorium Hotel, Chicago, Sunday afternoon, 24 April 1921.  Interpreted by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
Praise be to God, that we are today living in an age, in a cycle, in which the mysteries of God, the secrets of nature, are exposed and revealed so that man may study these laws and gain wisdom.  Such mysteries and secrets which have been known to man from time immemorial, these divine, intellectual, spiritual, artistic secrets of the world of God are all exposed by God so that we may gain benefit and attain to perfection.
When, seventy years ago, Bahá'u'lláh, in Persia, laid the foundation of the oneness of religion and declared the possibility, nay, the realization of a universal religion, people who were doctrinaires scoffed at such an idea and thought it was impossible, but today through the diffusion of the light of knowledge and education every forward-looking man and woman has come to the conclusion that the greatest need of the world of humanity is universal religion, and no other.
In those past ages when people lived in the obscurity of ignorance and narrow-mindedness, not becoming acquainted with the contents of each other's sacred book, not realizing that their prophets have all come to teach them the law of love and unity, they looked upon one another with the eyes of a stranger, they anathematized one another, they thought that they were the peculiar, the sacred, the divine race while the rest of mankind were barbarians, savages, and deprived of the mercy of God.
His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, even long before he declared his spiritual mission to mankind in 1863, in all his writings, in all his utterances, likened the religions of the world to so many pure mirrors reflecting the rays of the Sun of Reality.  He proved beyond a shadow of doubt through his divine power and spiritual words, creative and inspiring, that all the seven religions of the world were originally like unto pure, crystalline, limpid rivers which were flowing from the heart of God, from the heart of His manifestations through the deserts of human concepts, but as they flowed on and on they gathered the mud, the refuse, they were discoloured by human creeds and human imaginations and human fanaticism, and by the time they reached the ocean they were no more the pure water coming out of the Rock of Ages, but they were flowing mud.
Again Bahá'u'lláh likened the world unto a university, the prophets being the teachers and the professors of this college or school, and as it is the aim and
page 68
the desire of the teachers to raise the intellectual, the spiritual, the artistic minds of the pupils through the various degrees of accomplishment till they attain to a time when they get their diplomas, so likewise the prophets had one divine plan before them toward which they were working, and for the attainment of which they were educating the children of men, and that was the brotherhood and the unity of mankind.
Bahá'u'lláh planted the seeds of world citizenship and the oneness of the world of humanity in the hearts of his friends, and he irrigated and flooded these fields to such an extent that these Bahá'ís began to study the sacred books of all the religions, collecting and drawing out of this vast treasure house of sacred ideals those principles which agreed with one another, putting them side by side, writing a textbook, and thus proving that the quintessence, the original teachings of all the teachers and prophets of the past had been one ideal, and these books are being taught to our children in our schools so that they grow up with that universal consciousness and international mind.
Not only have the Bahá'ís been working in this field of investigation but even the scholars and the sages of this country, many of whom I met in the universities and colleges throughout this land, have been working along similar lines, writing textbooks on comparative religions, and showing in the most dramatic, in the most spiritual, convincing manner, that, these great teachers of humanity throughout successive ages have taught one universal ideal.
From a philosophic standpoint we can divide the contents of the sacred books of the world into five parts.  The first part is in regard to the principle of cosmogony or genesis, the creation of the world, and just as you have in the book of Genesis an account of creation, likewise other religions, Buddhists, Zoroastrians and Muslims have similar allegorical stories about the creation of the world.  This first historical part of the religious textbooks of the world, if we read them with the eyes of orthodoxy and literalization, are all unreasonable, not in accord with science or reason, not intellectual; they are like fairy-stories that we relate to our children; but if we interpret them with the eye of spiritual symbology and realize that the writers have been teaching humanity in this manner we gain the most spiritual and heavenly knowledge.
The Hindus have a myth that when God created the globe it was in a fluid state and it was moving through space with such velocity that there was no time for the creation of creatures, so Juerrnath, who was one of the gods, offered his services to the Almighty that he would take hold of this globe and keep it in order, giving time enough to God to create the rest of the creatures, but he took hold of the globe and it was so heavy that his two hands fell off.  The Hindus have the statue of this Juerrnath in all their temples as a god without two hands.  Now if you give spiritual interpretation to this story you have a beautiful lesson; otherwise it is the most unreasonable, fanciful story of the primitive races.
In the Zoroastrian religious books they have similar stories about the stellar globes in the universe, stating that each one of these stars was an intelligent being, controlling, governing and dominating the agencies of the world for a long time.
In the book of Genesis we read that on a certain day the sun was created.  Now the day is the result of the motion of the earth in relation to the sun.  Inasmuch as the sun was not created up to the third or the fourth day, how could there be any days?  Hence these contexts of the religious books of the world must be all interpreted with the modern conception of today and thus put them in line with the universal ideal of our time, and bring them within the harmonious institutions of the concepts of our age.
page 69
The second part of the texts of the religious books are all about supernatural things, about spiritual phenomena, belief in God, in the immortality of the soul, in the angel or devil, heaven or hell, resurrection and various other ideas with which we are familiar.  This second part is shared in common in all the religious books, and those ideals belonging to the second part, if they are not in accord with reason and science, are superstitions and must be thrown away.
The third part are the miracles or extraordinary events attributed to the prophets by their followers.  All the prophets of the past have achieved certain miracles, have performed extraordinary things, but the strange part of this fact is that although the followers of one prophet believe in all the miracles that their own has performed, they negate and deny similar miracles performed by another prophet.
The fourth part are the ceremonies, the rituals, the ecclesiastical rites which are existent more or less in different religions, in different languages.  They may speak in various tongues, but they all mean the same thing.  Now if these rituals are conducive to the purification of the soul, to the making of citizenship, of manhood, if they give spirituality and independence and responsibility to the worshipper, they are all good, and are rendering their service in their own place, but if they do not do that they are just useless impedimenta, intellectual and spiritual.
The fifth and most important part, which is the kernel of the religions, are the moral and the ethical teachings which are alike and identical in all the religions.  If you place side by side the religious books of the world, study them impartially, you will gain this deep insight that they are all teaching the same lesson, they are all inculcating the same fundamental norms.  Their lessons consist in spiritual unity of mankind, in the refinement of character, in the etherealization of the soul so that we may learn common sense and live side by side with the spirit of fellowship, kindness and comradeship.
To illustrate, Moses says, you must love your neighbour.  Christ explains the same idea only a step higher, that it is not a great thing for you to love your friend, you must love your enemy; should some one strike you on your right cheek, show him the left also.  Confucius declares the same ideal by saying, do not like anything to be done to others that you would not like it to be done to you.  Muhammad says, if you are walking along the street and some one comes and curses you, do not seem to hear it, but continue to walk, but if he persist; in cursing, you should turn to him and say, "Peace be upon you" (laughter and applause).  Again he says, the real believer is that soul from whose tongue and whose hand the people are safe.  Thus has the golden rule been explained or taught in different ages, in various languages, with the hope that humanity would practise them.
Zoroaster, the prophet of Persia, takes men to a higher plane when he teaches that it is not your merit to love humanity, because you have to love your own kind, but your merit consists in your love for the animal kingdom.  Do not harm an ant which is such a tiny creature because the ant has life and life is precious and sweet.  Therefore, all the sacrifices, all the persecutions, all the contumely that the prophets of the past went through was for this one, chief aim, to teach humanity how to act and live peacefully and avoid and shun misunderstandings.
I was speaking with an individual about the prophethood of Muhammad and when I explained to him that Muhammad was also the prophet of Arabia and had come to teach the sons of the desert the knowledge of God he said "I have read the Qur'án from beginning to end and I have not found there one word about God, but always Muhammad says
page 70
'Alláh, Alláh'." (laughter)  He said, "Now, what kind of a prophet is he that he never says God?"  I said, "Well, I am very sorry he did not live in America.  The English language had not penetrated into the Arabian peninsula while he was living, so he had to use his own language for the same ideal."  The prophets did not come to teach a name, they came to inculcate an ideal, and that ideal they had to explain and utter in their own language according to the conception of their own people, and, therefore, according to the spirit of the age in which they lived.
It has been through the sheer ignorance of men that they have looked upon the prophets are so many generals, as so many commanders leading armies into battlefields and fighting against each other.  Do you think if the prophets were to come today, Muhammad and Christ and Moses and Buddha, that they would teach their followers to go and fight and kill, or would they teach them to associate with one another, to set aside all their narrow-mindedness and suspicions and bigotry and backbiting and live in accordance with the ideal of love, harmony and unity?  That is, were it possible to have a conference of the prophets of the past they would have no other thought, they would discuss no other theme but to purify the religions of the past from man-made dogmas and creeds and bring them back to that original source of divine contemplation and spiritual realization.
His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, appeared in this age for the revealing of this great ideal and he has uncovered this divine mystery and has brought a universal religion but not a new religion, a religion which is the sum total, which is the consummation, which is the gathering together of all the past fragments of truth into one scintillating whole.  The precious jewels and gems of realities which were hidden and the thorns and thistles of human misunderstandings are again exposed and revealed to the sight of men.
Universal religion, therefore, is in need of a universal temple, not a temple where only rites and ceremonies are performed but a temple which is the home of universal love and service dedicating all energies to the work of human salvation.  The real temple is the heart of man.  When we build this temple in the centre of the heart we have the greatest divine temple.  The outward temple must be a symbol, an outward expression of that spiritual temple in the heart of humanity.  The real temple where God dwells, the abode where the Almighty resides all through eternity is the heart, provided we get hold of the broom of the love of God, and sweep from the chambers of this inner temple all the cobwebs, all the dust of the past ages of ignorance, of superstition and imitation.  What are the cobwebs and the dust with which the heart of humanity are covered today?  They are greed, passion, lust, transgression, sin, all these things are the devils standing at the gateway of the human temple and not letting the angels of self-sacrifice and of self-renunciation and of divine emotions enter into the abode of the Almighty.  When the temple of the heart is cleansed with this spiritual broom and all the dust and superstitions are scattered, then man will worship in that sacred shekinah, in that inner sanctuary without the need of outward walls, or using the temporal temple.
One of the great prophets of the orient has uttered a wonderful truth when he said that God told him that, "The heavens and the earth have not a place for Me, they are too small to hold Me, but the heart of a sincere lover, the heart of a believer, is the spacious kingdom of My presence."  When the horizon of the heart is broadened, when the intellect of man is expanded, thus allowing the infiltration of the lights of divinity, then those inner temples will become the home of universal conscience and international mind.
page 71
Bahá'u'lláh came to lay the foundation of a universal temple in the hearts of humanity, and because this universal temple is in need of an outward symbol, has instituted this great law of having a physical temple (the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár) where all humanity may worship God in accord with their conscience, an exterior, outward temple, the ideals and the aims of which may tally and correspond with that inner, interior temple of the heart.  The inner temple universal is a temple where God resides, the outer temple, which is also universal, is a place where there are no priests, where there are no rites, where there are no ceremonies but purely God who is the universal Father of all humanity and is worshipped with the utmost simplicity.
Just as Bahá'u'lláh has opened the door of this inner universal temple so that out of it universal love may issue forth, likewise the door of the physical universal temple must be opened for all and out of its gates the lights of universal love must be scattered to all parts of the globe.  Consequently, we hope that through the institution of these two temples always going and advancing side by side the inner temple of the heart, the outer temple of the world, thus through the co-operation of these two universal temples the world of humanity may be freed from the claws of the ferocious beasts of superstition and fanaticism, the temple of brotherhood, the temple of unity, the temple of spirituality and co-operation to be built in the heart and out of the heart, this outer symbol, thus they may work harmoniously and make this world as one home, the children of men as one flock and God as the universal Shepherd.
In truth, when we listen with the ear of the spirit today we hear the people of all religions crying at the top of their voices that the spirit has left their temples.  What was the cause of the banishment of the Spirit from these temples?  Because the leaders of the church wanted to organize the Spirit, they wanted to institutionalize the Holy Ghost, and thus they lost the great boon of spiritual spontaneity and unification.  God, therefore, has a great gift for the world of humanity today.  He has freed the spirit of worship from the chains and fetters of ecclesiasticism so that mankind may grow in this immensity of God's love with the greatest freedom, with the greatest liberty and with the greatest joy and happiness (applause).


XII:4, 17 May 1921
page 82
Religion must be the cause of love and unity
Address of Jináb-i-Fádil, delivered at the Bahá'í Congress, held in the Auditorium Hotel, Chicago, Monday evening, 25 April 1921.  Interpreted by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
...
There is no other discussion more
page 83
profitable today than the discussion of universal love, no other ideal conducive to the betterment of the world of mankind than those ideals which bring happiness and joy.  This is indeed one of the distinguishing characteristics of the Bahá'í meetings that when we enter therein we feel their humanity, their love, their happiness.  They have no other subject except the subject of love, no other law to put in execution but the law of friendship and whenever and wherever they talk, no matter on what subject, they will always somehow bring it to the conclusion and that conclusion is universal love and universal amity.
In oriental countries whenever the people enter a Bahá'í meeting or talk with an individual Bahá'í they, after a few moments, realize either consciously or unconsciously that they are amongst the angels of heaven, because these Bahá'ís in all their talks, in all their conversations, have no other aim but this great universal aim of universal love.  Is there, indeed, a greater reality in the world of humanity than love?  A thousand times no.  Love is the spirit of this universe.  Love is the cause of the creation of phenomena.  Love is the foundation of all our social and ethical activities.  God has created His world through love, He has kept it in cohesion through love and He is creating constantly all things through the law of love.
As a person travels from one end of the globe to another, wherever he observes civilization, progress, achievement, development, he realizes that all these things have come through the law of affinity and association, and whenever he observes destruction, chaos, disorder, he immediately realizes that they have been brought about through hatred, animosity, and internecine war.  The progress, the glory, the majesty and the sublimity of the world of humanity are dependent upon love and affinity.  Love is the magnet that draws unto man all the favours, all the bounties of God.  It is the spiritual electricity that illumines the hearts and the minds of the world of mankind.  In brief, love is the panacea for all the diseases of mankind, it is the greatest and the most effective remedy that you can find in the divine pharmacopoeia.  Love is the seed out of which grows the fruit of justice.  Love is the seed out of which develops unity and agreement and personal contact with God.  God is love, and He has sent all His prophets to teach love, and all the lessons that they gave to their followers consisted of the lessons of love.
The prophets would not only teach love but with their creative word created love in the hearts of humanity.  Through the creation of love, through the emanation of that supernatural power which God had deposited in them they evolved that unity amongst the children of men.  When we study the history of the religions, for example, the Mosaic dispensation, and become acquainted with its various historical facts, we come to realize that Moses created love and unity amongst the children of Israel.  Similarly Christ, unaided and alone, unfurled the banner of love amongst his disciples, his apostles and his followers.  The same illustration is true of the coming of all the other prophets who established the law of love.
Unquestionably when people come together they can bring about the law of love through the ties of the family.  They can likewise establish the law of love through scientific achievements.  Patriotism is another instrument for bringing about the law of love, but all these various means to realize the law of love are limited and ephemeral.  They can be brought to us through certain accidents of life, but the providence of God, the Manifestations of the Almighty came to establish that divine love upon the Rock of Ages which is eternal, everlasting and age abiding.
The foundation of the religions was love and amity.  The result, the spirit, the working, the law and the sum total of law given by the prophets has been
page 84
no other than the execution of the law of love.  It is, however, most regrettable that when these great Manifestations appeared in the world and established the law of love, after a period of time from their departure, out of the dark well of human imaginations and bigotry, smoke and clouds of intolerance and narrow-mindedness arose toward heaven and prevented the shining of the Sun of Love.  These clouds were the result of the evaporation of the seas of human desires, greed and passion, and they were so impenetrable, so dense that for many ages they kept the Sun of Reality behind their thick veils.
The angel of love left the audience of humanity and on the throne was established the satan of hate.  The principles of amity, of fellowship and concord which were the results or the objects of the Manifestations of God, departed from this world and in their place came the policies and the exigencies of human conditions and human notions which were no other than destructive, than humiliating, for that divine nature deposited in the heart of man by the hand of God.
Who were the centres and the mainsprings of these clouds of superstition, this smoke of human imaginations?  They were the religious leaders, self-seeking, self-centred men, who had no other thought but to advance their own ideas.  They were filled with spiritual pride, they were haughty, they were the satans of their age, and thus they brought into the world all these calamities and catastrophes.  No doubt the simple-minded and the simple-hearted, who form the mass of humanity, looked upon these dark clouds as though they contained the heavenly rays, and they looked toward these mirages as though they were the salubrious waters.
These people with their selfish aims and purposes divided the religion of God into so many parts, you might call them butchers.  They cut the body of the spiritual religion into so many pieces that no spirit was left in it (laughter).  Hence we can assure ourselves without any contradiction that the foundation of religion, the essence of religion, the perfume of religion, was love and amity, and anything aside from these primal laws was the emanation of the egos of these self-seeking leaders. (applause)
His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, appeared in Persia, and through his dynamic, divine power, polished and cleansed the surfaces of the mirrors of religion from the dust of imagination.  The body of religion, which was covered with all these ideas of human notions and traditions, was washed and purified.  He taught humanity a most wonderful lesson, and this was that religion is the essence of love, religion is love, and anything beside it is superstition.  He unstopped the ears, he opened the eyes, he enlarged the hearts and expanded the souls.  He explained that religion is amity, religion is friendship, religion is concord, and if any form of religion brings about hatred, strangeness and alienation amongst men, it is better not to have religion but to have love and amity.
It is perfectly plain that a harmful substance is not good to have around us and it is better to keep ourselves away from it as much as possible.  He likewise explained that religion is the remedy, it is the medicine for the diseases of humanity, and if the taking of this medicine aggravates the disease it is better not to take it.
They tell a story in Persia that there was a sick man lying on a bed, and they brought for him a physician.  The physician took the pulse, diagnosed the disease, and wrote the prescription.  When he went out the nurses came around and began to discuss with one another whether this doctor was an allopath, or a homeopath, or an osteopath, or some other kind of path (laughter) or whether he had diagnosed the disease rightly, whether they should give the patient the medicine when he was sitting in his bed or when he was sitting in his
page 85
chair.  They talked so much that finally one of them said, "Let me go and find out how the patient is", and when he went there the patient had already passed away. (laughter)
The religions of God are the medicines, the remedies for the removal of the diseases of humanity, but the followers of these divine physicians instead of taking the medicines that they had prescribed, sit around tables in conventions and conferences and councils, talking about the stations, the sublimity of these great physicians, and they never thought that the time had come for them to take the medicine.  Thus His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, has warned us that the age has come in which humanity must avoid all theological wrangles and metaphysical discussions with which the past ages were afflicted, and has revealed to us the quintessence of the religions of the world, which is harmony, love and unity.
When Bahá'u'lláh, through his heavenly power, manifested to the world of humanity this great truth, immediately the clouds were dispersed and the Sun of Reality shone forth with the utmost brilliancy.  He pitched a tent, a tabernacle of unity, on the top of Mount Carmel, in the Holy Land, the branches of which have spread to all parts of the globe.  He constructed a home of love in the rooms and the galleries and the chambers of which all the races, all the nations and all the religions may live with the greatest fellowship and association.  This is the century of international justice.  This is the era of love.  This is the cycle of friendship.  This is the time in which the power of universal religion must be revealed.  This is the hour in which all the children of men must forget their past differences and live peacefully under the tent of universal love, being the members of one family, the stars of one heaven, the fingers of one hand, and the flowers of one rose-garden (applause).


XII:5, 5 June 1921
page 99
The conformity of science and religion
-The universal education of the future
Address of Jináb-i-Fádil, delivered at the Bahá'í Congress, held in the Auditorium Hotel, Chicago, Tuesday evening, 26 April 1921.  Interpreted by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
The cause of His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, is a movement, a dispensation which includes in it the dreams, the visions, the aspirations and the hopes of the past seers, prophets, thinkers and philosophers, impartially, and with an eye of justice and equanimity.
If a student studies and investigates the realities and the principles of the religion of Bahá'u'lláh, he will find therein all the truth, all the realities, which are for the betterment and the refinement of character and the development of humanity.
One of the cardinal principles of this blessed dispensation is the conformity of all religious ideals with scientific deductions.  If a person ponders over this great principle, he will realize that it has solved one of the greatest problems of the age; it has eradicated the source of many misunderstandings and confusions which were the causes of war and struggle in former ages.
There is no doubt whatsoever that in this universal scheme of things, in this laboratory of nature, there is no more complete, and intricate, and subtle faculty created by God than the brain and its manifold convolutions.  The categories, psychological and spiritual, belong to the manifestations of the brain.  No matter how you may locate it, whether in the cerebrum or cerebellum, whether in the lower or upper part of the brain-these categories are the most wonderful, the most perfect realization of this great phenomenon called mind or brain.
The sublimity, the grandeur, and the all comprehending powers of man emanate from the mind.  If man were minus the functioning powers of the mind, he would be less than the animals, or anything in the animal kingdom, save certain kinds, who manifest greater powers of instinct or characteristics than man.
The intellectual function in man is like a brilliant star or lamp deposited by the hand of the Almighty in the very centre of the human being, which functioning power has the quality of revealing and discovering all the secret laws of nature and creation.
It is the manifesting of that mental power which has made possible the revelation of the mysteries of the laws of nature.  It is through that intellectual power that sciences, arts, crafts, industries, and all the other instruments and channels of modern civilization, have transformed the world, and have brought to them those elements which have made life liveable and comfortable in our modern civilization.
We can liken this intellectual power to a mine in the depths of which there are infinite gems and jewels.  From the beginning of creation the world of humanity has been digging and digging so that these jewels and gems, hidden in
page 100
the mine of intellect may be displayed.  But, how much of it have we brought into display?  Only, very, very little.  What we have is only a drop, and what is hidden, still, and which we must develop and explore, is like a great infinite, depthless, boundless ocean.
It is beyond a shadow of doubt, that these powers of the mind were undergoing from time immemorial great changes and transformations, and these transformations and metamorphosis lead to the expansion of the intellect, the extension of the domain of knowledge, the bringing into the world of reality those invisible laws of creation.
If we overlook the mind and its manifestations, the results, and the outcomes issuing from the activity of this intelligence, what would be man?  What will we be?  Only a conglomeration of flesh, muscles, bones and other materials-nothing more.
Consequently this intellectual force is a guide and an unerring companion, an inner prophet, an interior saviour deposited in the nature of man by the hand of God, that leads man from the path of wrong into the highway of righteousness, that teaches him to shun evil and hasten toward good.
In the world of science and knowledge, if we go back into the Dark Ages, medieval history, we find many seemingly scientific hypothesis and theories which were looked upon as realities in those ages; but they are today exploded through new discoveries.  How are we going to explain those phenomena?  We can explain it by this fact, that those theories, looked upon as realities by our forefathers, were simply efforts of the mind, assertions of man to explain certain unexplained laws, and as man is a curious animal and he desires to know things these were his efforts to find out, and when the time passed and the necessity for those laws was obviated, greater and more perfect laws were born into the world.
The science of astronomy is the greatest illustration.  Because, there was a time when the Ptolemaic system was taught in Egypt, later on adopted by the Greeks, and then introduced into Europe-that the earth was the centre of the universe and the sun, the stars, the planets, all revolve around this infinitesimal globe of ours.  How ridiculous this theory seems to modern mind!  And yet, for ages and ages it was taught, and anyone who departed one hair's breadth from this theory was looked upon as a heretic and a dangerous man.
Is there any intelligent being today, who would rise and say that we must still believe in that ancient, exploded theory of astronomy or astrology?
Now, here is one philosophical point that I call your attention to:  Just as the sciences of the world evolve and every age has its school of science and philosophy, likewise, hand in hand with science and philosophy goes the development and the evolution of religion.  Religion is an index to the science of the day, and science is an index to the religion of the day.
The prophets and the manifestations of God are the teachers in the schools of humanity; just as the teachers in our schools have to teach the children in accord with their receptivity for growth and mental acquisition, likewise, these great prophets taught the children of mankind from age to age in those lessons for which they were adapted, so that they might go through certain classes, receive their certificate, and attain to the higher and the highest classes of perfection.
We are living, today, in a universal age, in an era of universal consciousness, in an age of the discovery of the sciences, the display of imagination, the perfections and the revealing of the mystic laws, and if we study the contents of the seven books of the religions of the past, we find in them certain statements which are not in accord with the deductions of modern science.  What are we going to do with them?
page 101
Because the priests of religions, the teachers of these sacred books, assert dogmatically that these statements must be taken literally, and not otherwise, and that their outward meanings must be accepted by the people, without any interpretation, we find an increasing number of men and women leaving their churches and religious organizations, disappointed with the kind of teachings that these teachers give and thus avoiding all religions and anything that savours of religion.
To make this matter plain-the students of religions in the past, from certain statements in their books, gained a conception of Deity which is anthropomorphic, that is, a human being sitting on a throne with a long white beard, with thousands and thousands of angels bowing down before him doing his biddings and singing songs and hallelujahs.  This conception is based upon the theocratic or rather despotic Oriental idea that the king was that type, the highest in the government, with all the ministers and courtiers doing obedience or prostrating before him in every way.  They got their conception of God from their idea of government.
Now, it is very well, and very good for our ancestors to have believed in this theory, because the signs of the creation inculcated and developed such thought; but what can we do today, when modern sciences have exploded that idea of heaven, that locality where this so-called God was residing?  Where is that place?  Science comes and tells us that this is an infinite expanse of ether; the more you ascend the more infinite it becomes and thus the place and the position of the ancient heavens are all obliterated.
Similarly, in regard to the question of the creation.  It was taught that God created this world in six days; that the time will come when He will repent of His creation and He will destroy it, and all the world must come to an end.  Now, the story of geology, and other similar sciences, tells us that this world has been created millions and millions of years; that it will run according to normal life many more millions of years.  How are we going to conform these two principles or ideas?
The ancient theologians tried to find out, or locate, hell.  So after much discussion, they came to this conclusion:  That it was in the centre of the earth-very hot-and it was a square plane, rectangular, all its angles equal to each other and that all the evil souls were thrown in the depth of that fiery lake.  Geology has come and exploded this theory.
Now, these material or physical facts of nature, misinterpreted, are miraculous religious ideas without conformity with science and reason.  Both these ideas are against scientific principles and must somehow, in this age, be squared, before religion can advance in the consciousness of man.
When an intelligent person presented himself before a priest and asked him questions similar to those we have propounded in the lecture, about these matters, and asked him to explain the meaning of these things, that they were unreasonable and unscientific-all that that priest or minister had to tell them was, "You have to believe in these things blindly.  Faith is the law.  You must not search, you must not investigate.  These are beyond your conception; just continue to believe and somehow, some day you will find it out." (Laughter)  A rather weak consolation.
This had two evil results:  Firstly, a scientific mind would never believe in these metaphysical theological dogmas; and secondly, it drove away many thousands of students who were open minded and ready to believe, but they could not be convinced because these ministers of religions were unable to explain these ideas and give to these men that religious consolation and trust which are the foundation of life.
You have only to read the development of the history of the religions and find
page 102
throughout various ages and cycles that there have been great prophets and great philosophers and scholars who tried to conform religious laws with scientific postulates; but these religious ministers, who were engrained in their fanaticism and dogmatism arose against them and ostracized them, looked upon them as heretics, burned them at the stake and thus throttled the voice of freedom and the development of conscience.
This struggle between science and religion, this conflict between faith and science went on and on, till in the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh, seventy years ago, he through his divine power, through his supernal majesty, evolved that heavenly plan for the unification of science and religion which will continue throughout all the succeeding ages, with increasing blessings upon mankind.
He stated that God is reality.  Religion is likewise reality, and this reality is not against science.  If religious idea is against scientific ideas, it is superstition and must be thrown away.
His greatest divine service was to write spiritual interpretations of the religious books of the world explaining their meanings so that they are today in conformity with the scientific conscience of the time.
Poetically and spiritually he said, "the soul of man is like unto a bird".  Just as the bird cannot soar toward the apex of heaven, likewise, the bird of the soul cannot soar or fly in the atmosphere of knowledge without two wings-the wing of science and the wing of religion.
Science without religion is similar unto a jewel which is covered with soiled and tattered cloths, or it is like unto a light which is shining through a dark, sooty, glass.  Science without religion is likened unto a very beautiful, perfect body, but lifeless; like unto a very clear glass, but lightless.
Here comes in his system of education which is based upon the development of the mind and the heart, of the intellect, of the emotions, so that side by side these two powers, religion and science, may work and advance along the highway of humanity.
Science and religion are likened unto two eyes for the body of mankind; likened unto two pillars for the erection of the palace of human brotherhood and solidarity.
Almost all the differences and dissensions existing among the religions of the world were based upon ignorance and misunderstanding of the realities of their books and when Bahá'u'lláh explained those facts to them and corresponded their religious ideals with scientific or intellectual principles all the differences were removed and a great urge or surge of spiritual life appeared.
Bahá'u'lláh, consequently, brought to us the essence of religion which is the reality of science and he gave to us the quintessence of signs which is the jewel of religion and thus united and harmonized the religions of the world and removed all signs and theories of conflicts and turmoils.
This is the age of illumination, this is the cycle of light, this is the era of human brotherhood, this is the time for universal peace, and we cannot-and will never-have the realities of these principles until all of us will arise and conform all our religious ideas to scientific principles.  Thus these two blessings of God will transform the surface of the earth into the paradise of glory.


XII:5, 5 June 1921
page 103
The removal of race prejudice
Excerpts from the Holy Utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Compiled by M. H. and M. M.
[Passages available in the Writings have been omitted.]
__________
From a Tablet to Mr Louis G. Gregory, Washington, D.C.
O thou wooer of Truth!
Thy letter was received.  Its contents indicated thy attainment to the Most Great Guidance.  Thank thou God that thou hast attained to such a bounty, discovered the faith of the Kingdom and received the glad-tidings of the universe of the Most High.  This divine bestowal is conducive to thy everlasting glory in both worlds.
I hope that thou mayest become the herald of the Kingdom; become the means whereby the white and coloured people shall close their eyes to racial differences and behold the reality of humanity-that is the universal unity which is the oneness of the kingdom of the human race, the basic harmony of the world and the appearance of the bounty of the Almighty.
In brief, do thou not look upon thy weak body and thy limited capacity; look thou upon the bounties of the Lord of the Kingdom, for His confirmation is great and His power unparalleled and
page 106
incomparable.  Rely as much as thou canst upon the True One, and be thou resigned to the Will of God, so that like unto a candle thou mayest be enkindled in the world of humanity, and like unto a star thou mayest shine and gleam from the horizon of Reality and become the cause of the guidance of both races.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Washington, D.C., 17 November 1909.
__________
From a Tablet to Mr J. H. Hannan, Washington, D.C., received at the same time as the foregoing one to Mr L. G. Gregory.
Ye have written that the coloured Bahá'ís have gathered in one meeting with the white believers, destroying the foundation of racial differences and the barriers of colour.  When a gathering of these two races is brought about, that assemblage will become the magnet of the Supreme Concourse and the confirmation of the Blessed Perfection will surround it.
__________
From a Tablet to Mrs Louis Washington of New York City.
O thou beloved maid-servant of God!
In thy letter thou hast intimated that thou art coloured.  In the Kingdom of God no distinction is made as to the colour of the skin, whether it be black or white; nay, rather the heart and soul are considered.  If the spirit is pure, the face is illumined, although it be black.  If the heart is stained, the face is dark and depressed, although it may be of the utmost beauty.  The colour of the pupils of the eye is black, yet they are the fountains of light.
Although the white colour is apparent, yet in it is hidden and concealed seven colours.  Therefore whiteness and blackness have no importance; nay, rather the circle of distinction is based upon soul and heart.
__________
From a Tablet to Mrs J. H. Hannen.
Praise be to God, that the doors of the Kingdom are opened, the voice of God is raised; no differences remain between the white and the coloured races.  All of them are favoured at the Threshold of the Almighty and all are beloved in the sight of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
From a Tablet to Robert Ferrell.
O thou who art awakened by the Light of Guidance!
Praise be to God, that through Mr and Mrs Kinney thou didst hear the glad-tidings of the Kingdom of God and found eternal life through the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  It is hoped that the ensign of the Lord of Hosts may be
page 107
raised and unfurled among the coloured race and through the effort of the friends the lights of guidance be diffused, so that the accomplishments of the black race may equal those of the white race.
Convey the wonderful Abhá greeting to the maid-servant of God, Mrs Marie Botay, and work with her in the guidance of thy race, and endeavour thou so that thy respected wife may be led by the light of guidance.
Upon thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Washington, D.C., 19 April 1910.
__________
From a Tablet to Charles Mason Remey
O dear friend!
You have written that there were several meetings of joy and happiness, one for white and another for coloured people.  Praise be to God!  As both races are under the protection of the All-Knowing God, therefore the lamps of unity must be lighted in such a manner in these meetings that no distinction be perceived between the white and coloured.  Colours are phenomenal, but the realities of men are essence.  When there exists unity of the essence what power has the phenomenal?  When the light of reality is shining what power has the darkness of the unreal?  If it be possible, gather together these two races, black and white, into one Assembly, and put such love into their hearts that they shall not only unite but even intermarry.  Be sure that the result of this will abolish differences and disputes between black and white.  Moreover, by the Will of God, may it be so.  This is a great service to humanity.1
Mr Gregory is at present in great happiness.  He went to 'Akká and visited the Holy Threshold and the Supreme Court.  He is now, day and night, mingling with the friends of God and 'Abdu'l-Bahá in joy and gladness.  He will return to America very soon, and you, the white people, should then honour and welcome this shining coloured man in such a way that all the people will be astonished.
Upon you be the Glory of God!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá copied from notes taken at 'Akká by Mr and Mrs Hannen, February, 1909.
There should be no differentiation between the blacks and the whites.  All are the creatures of God.  All are created by one God.  There is no black and white in the Kingdom of God.  The purest heart is the best whether white or black.  I had a servant-Isfandíyár by name-he was better than a hundred whites.  He was so good tempered, so faithful and trustworthy.  One would be amazed at his intelligence.
The question of the races is one which is extremely regrettable.  For the blacks hate the whites, while the whites distrust the blacks.  You must overcome this by showing them that you make no distinction.  The end will be very unfortunate for both if the differences are not removed.
page 108
__________
Copied from Ahmad's diary letter, 28 September 1913.
I can never forget the day in Washington when our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá called on the Ambassador of Turkey.  He was sitting near the window, watching the number of men and women passing by.  At the time a young Negro as black as coal passed by.  "Did you see that young black Negro?" he asked.  "Yes," I answered.  "I declare by Bahá'u'lláh that I wish him to become as radiant as the shining sun which is flooding the world with its glorious lights," he said earnestly.
This example will show you how our Beloved is anxious, and how he is working day and night so that all mankind may advance daily along the degrees of spiritual and intellectual activities of the ever marching upward till it attains to the highest station of perfection.
__________
Copy of a message from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs Botay, sent through Mrs Carrie Kinney, 'Akká, 1909
Give Mrs Botay my greetings and love and tell her she must greatly endeavour through the assistance of heaven to cast light among the coloured people so that they may become as our brothers; no blacks, no whites; both as one.  By this means you shall free Americans from all prejudice.  Because in the Kingdom of God all are the same, whether black or white.  The greater the faith of either, the more acceptable is he in the Kingdom.  A faithful coloured believer is a child of the Kingdom; while a white unbeliever is deprived.  God looks upon hearts; not upon colours.  He looks upon qualities; not upon bodies.
__________
Some words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs Botay.  This is not a verbatim report, but written at once from memory.
'Abdu'l-Bahá said to me that the affiliation of the white with the coloured people was a great work in the Cause of God; that I must strive, strive to affiliate the hearts.  My services were accepted, and that I was assisted and would be assisted.  He said the hearts were not affiliated yet, and if this condition between the white and coloured people continued much longer, there was great danger.
__________
From notes of Mrs Botay from a private interview with 'Abdu'l-Bahá in New York City, 17 June 1912.
I asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá if he meant by telling me to affiliate the hearts of the white and coloured people, that I must strive to have them meet together in love and fellowship in one meeting place.  He replied:  "Yes, that is what I mean."
page 121
__________
From a Tablet to Mrs Antoinette Crump Cone, Chicago.
O thou well-wisher of humanity!
Thy letter was received.  Utmost sorrow and sadness was produced, owing to the prejudices and enmity which exist between the white and coloured races.  If this matter remains without change, enmity will be increased day by day and the final result will be hardship and may end in bloodshed.
The most important teaching of His Highness, Bahá'u'lláh, is to leave behind racial, political, religious, and patriotic prejudices.  Until these prejudices are entirely removed from the people of the world, the realm of humanity will not find rest.  Nay, rather, discord and bloodshed will be increased day by day, and the foundation of the prosperity of the world of man will be destroyed.
It is impossible to strike at the root of these racial, political, religious and patriotic prejudices unless the inhabitants of the world come under the shadow of Bahá'u'lláh.  This fact is demonstrated and has become evident in the Orient; for we can see that through the effect of this Word Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians, Brahmins, and Buddhists, are associated with each other with the utmost love and affinity, to such an extent that they are considered one race.  Their different names are forgotten; for instance, one often sees sitting at the same table the Muslim, the Jew, the Christian, the Turk, the European, the Kurd, the Persian-associating and living with each other with utmost concord and harmony.  This wonderful spirit is realized to such an extent that it seems as though all of them are both Occidental and Oriental.
Therefore, if thou seekest a remedy
page 122
for solving all of these problems-there is no remedy except faith and assurance.  Faith is the cause of harmony; faith is the cause of love; faith is the cause of unity and concord.
It is my hope that this race question may be considered like unto the colours of the doves and other birds.  They do not allow differences of colour to be the cause of hatred and animosity among them.  One flock of birds is white, another grey, another yellow, another red, another black.  They soar in the air with each other with the utmost love and do not fight with each other on account of their difference of colour.  Man must, likewise, attain to this degree of harmony, so that there may be no differences or disharmony among the children of men on account of colour, for all of them are human beings.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, Washington, D.C., 24 February, 1912.


XII:6, 24 June 1921
page 115
Convention for amity between the coloured and white races
Louis G. Gregory
page 119
...
Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, presenting the subject, "Bible Prophecies of Universal Brotherhood", said, "I will not discuss prophecies in detail, but try to convey their spirit.  The Bible is the book of brotherhood and universality.  Take the opening teaching, 'Let there be light!'  This does not refer to the light of the physical sun, but rather, let there be the light of intelligence, understanding, sympathy.  These will bring into one's life regeneration and the uplift for which humanity strives.  All the prophets taught the law of brotherhood.  They were heralds of the Message of God.  They were the Light of God.  The points of difference among men are far less than the points upon which they agree.  If we give proper emphasis to the points of contact, it will be the means of ushering in the Kingdom of God upon earth."
page 123
...
Jinábí Fádil was the last speaker. ...
page 124
... The aims of all the Prophets of God, while they underwent persecution, was the establishment of peace among the people of the world.  It is evident that racial prejudice has long been a disease attacking the body of humanity.  There are many blots on the pages of history due to prejudices and misunderstandings.  However, there has always been a ray of light through the gloom of tyranny and injustice.  The law of progress is due to this.  Now again it is in our midst.
"In my country, Persia, racial misunderstandings were very strong, much more so than in the United States.  Although racial prejudice played a great part, there were other prejudices, such as religious and sectarian, each one playing havoc.  Each of the races had its own language and religion; and so they fought, causing much spoliation, destruction and carnage.  Muslims persecuted Jews, withholding from them the just administration of the laws.
"There are not many coloured people in Persia, yet they appear in the records of the poets and scientists.  One of them was known as Lokman the Wise.  His sayings are on the lips of thousands.  When dying he told his son, if ever unhappy, to find the shirt of a man who has never been sad, put it on, and his own sadness would vanish.  When difficulties came in the life of the son he searched in vain for such a man, and thus realized that sorrows were the common lot.  One of the kings of Persia had a coloured son.  In his youth he proved himself so clever and capable that he was chosen by his father over another son as his successor.  He became one of the wisest and most sagacious kings of Persia, gathering around him many scholars.  He had the Greek books translated into Persian and his court became famous for wisdom and learning.
"Racial and religious prejudice lately became much intensified in Persia until a great spiritual movement appeared.  The doors of the Kingdom were opened.  The Divine Bounty rained down and thousands of people were filled with the power of God.  The Divine love brought a community of interest.  All antagonistic elements gathered around the standard of unity and agreement.  Liberal ideas were introduced among the children in the schools.  The children being simple and coming from God without prejudices, grew up knowing God and His laws.  In reality, children enter the world without bigotry and fanaticism, but are taught these things by their elders.  My only race is the human race.  My only religion is that of God.  My country is the whole world.  We must put aside narrow and limited notions, for we see the harm they have done others.  It is now the age of Divine justice and universal service.  All tears must be wiped away!
"Leaders of humanity, teachers, editors, preachers, must take the lead in developing these ideals.  The Sun of Reality has dawned from the horizon of the world.  The Breeze of Generosity is wafting and the Call of the Kingdom has reached the ends of the earth!  Ere long there will be great waves of love.  The banner of Universal Peace will be hoisted!  Gloom will be dispelled.  We shall all be as the leaves of one tree and the flowers of one rose-garden, and all the friends of God will embrace each other."


XII:6, 24 June 1921
page 120
Interview with 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Reported in a letter written by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí to Mr Alfred Lunt, Secretary of the Bahá'í Temple Unity, Chicago, 10 June 1921.  [Extracts]
... I hope that all the Bahá'ís in America will attach great importance to the racial problem in order that everyone shall realize the seriousness of this matter.  I will state to you in brief, an interview I had with the beloved Master, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, on 6 April 1920, at Haifa, Palestine, in which he referred to this matter.
After inquiring after my health with his usual charming and inspiring words of love and affection and giving me a cup of tea, he handed me a clipping from a newspaper, saying, "Read this."  After glancing at the contents, I said, "My Lord, this is an article written by Miss Martha Root which appeared in a Cleveland newspaper; it contains a Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the contents of which are to the effect that unless the white and coloured races become united, there will be bloodshed; that through the Bahá'í teachings only can racial, political and religious prejudices pass away; that the Bahá'í teachings are the only means that shall bring about love and unity."
'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "Yes, this is the truth.  If the races do not come to an agreement, there can be no question or doubt of bloodshed.  When I was in America, I told the white and coloured people that it was incumbent upon them to be united or else there would be the shedding of blood.  I did not say more than this so that they might not be saddened.  But, indeed, there is a greater danger than only the shedding of blood.  It is the destruction of America.
page 121
Because aside from the racial prejudice there is another agitating factor.  It is that of America's enemies.  These enemies are agitating both sides, that is, they are stirring up the white race against the coloured race and the coloured race against the white race.  But of this the Americans are submerged in the sea of ignorance.  They will regret it.  But of what use will their regret be after the destruction of America?  Will it be of any use then?"
I told him of a letter which I had received from Chicago during the week, stating that two houses belonging to coloured Bahá'ís had been bombed with dynamite.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "I foretell things before they happen and I write about them before they occur.  The destruction of two or three houses is of no importance, but the importance lies in what is coming, which is the destruction of America.  The Arabs have many proverbs.  For instance, 'Heavy rains begin with drops before it pours,' and 'The dancer starts with shaking the shoulder, then the whole body.'  Now is the time for the Americans to take up this matter and unite both the white and the coloured races.  Otherwise, hasten ye towards destruction!  Hasten ye toward devastation!"
On other occasions the Master said he hoped that the race problem would be solved by the American government.
...
Faithfully yours,
Díyá M. Baghdádí.


XII:7, 13 July 1921
page 131
The dawn of the Sun of Reality and the power of the influence of Bahá'u'lláh
Address of Jináb-i-Fádil, delivered at the Bahá'í Congress, held in the Auditorium Hotel, Chicago, Wednesday evening, 27 April 1921.  Interpreted by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
It is indeed a source of great pleasure and joy that again we find ourselves in this splendid audience tonight to speak on the principles of peace, love, and amity which have come to encircle the globe.
It is an incontrovertible fact that the world of humanity today is sick, and the greatest need of this sickness is to have a Divine physician so that He may diagnose the disease and prescribe the medicine.
This disease, however, is not characteristic of our age-the further we advance toward the primitive ages the more we find the traces and the signs of this disease handed to us from age to age, cycle to cycle.
As we study universal history, and scan the pages of those ancient records, we find that the world of humanity in all ages and cycles, has been afflicted with the satan of war, struggle, vicissitude, and carnage.
Long before mankind began to develop sociological groups, and various nation and state feelings-when men were living in the trees and the eaves and the rivers, in those primitive ages, still this satan of hatred, animosity and ill feeling held its rein over the minds and hearts of men; but today it has made its appearance under other names, such as, racial, patriotic, and religious distinctions.
Even when the people of the world grew in intelligence and intellectual faith, and began to establish the foundations of states and governments, thinking that these states and governments would protect the people from the ravages of the satanic suggestions of each other-lo and behold, these very governments became the farmers or the sowers of the seeds of suspicion, discontent and ill feeling amongst their own subjects and amongst the subjects of each other.
No one can compute the millions of innocent souls that were killed in order to advance the rapacity and the greed of these governments-except the earth which was crimsoned with the blood of these people and the stars rolling in the immensity of heaven, looking down with wonder and astonishment at the intolerance, ignorance and rapacity of man.
The more science advanced, the greater the display of human intelligence and genius became manifest, the wider became the circle of human bloodshed, carnage, and spoilation.
Science brought into the arena of activity its deadly engines of warfare.  Whereas, formerly, in the Dark Ages, in a few years or in a few months only a few thousand people were killed by the two combatants-today, with these
page 132
perfected instruments of carnage, in a few days millions of men can be dispatched into the Unknown.
From a philological standpoint, if we compare the conditions of those people, whom we call savages and barbarians, and our own people, especially in this age, calling ourselves civilized and enlightened-the only difference between us is that whereas formerly we killed the people with those primitive instruments, with javelins, darts and others; today we kill them with these perfected scientific instruments and we call ourselves civilized (laughter and applause).
This is, therefore, self-evident that intellectual accomplishments, scientific achievements, by themselves, and through themselves, will not bring about human felicity and prosperity-nay, rather, they increase discontent, turmoil, and conflict; setting class against class and bringing havoc and disorder.
The last world war is the greatest demonstration of this fact; that this war in itself was the result of the human, so-called, enlightenment and civilization.
Can we imagine that we are through with war!  Or we are through forever with human greed, passion and conflict!  Any man, studying with seeing eyes and intelligent mind the conditions before his eyes and the events transpiring in different parts of the world-any man, I say, coming to such a conclusion is devoid of intelligence.
Having already travelled for one year throughout the various cities of the United States and Canada and speaking before ever so many clubs, schools, colleges, universities and churches, I have come to a rather startling conclusion; that, nationalism, which is the cause of all warfare, is today more active in the schools and in the colleges of this country than ever before, and we call this country the home of peace, the most progressive, and the most liberal democratic government on the face of the earth.
In many of these so-called common schools I observed with my own eyes that the teachers sowed the seeds of national superiority, or what we call prejudices, in the pure, virgin soil of the minds and the hearts of these children who have to grow in this age with an international mind and a universal conscience.  But, they grow up under the present conditions with narrow-minded ideas, with simple thoughts concerning the almost perfection of the conditions of their own country and environment.
The remedy for these diseases is to extricate the very root of these prejudices from the minds and the hearts of the people of the world (applause).
No matter how far we may go back into the dim history of the past, we find spiritual teachers, divine prophets, heavenly poets, who are shining in the heavens of human consciousness like scintillating stars, leading and guiding men to the fountain head of peace, brotherhood, and solidarity.
These holy souls were those who, though surrounded by many difficulties and persecutions and sufferings, stood firm and steadfast, and called the attention of their fellow men to the practice of those primal laws of fellowship and comradeship, and heavenly association.
Although in those ages it was impossible for these inspired teachers to practically lay the foundation of universal peace, yet they did not sleep, they did not rest; they worked and taught, day in and day out, and sowed the seeds of brotherhood, of unity and love in the hearts of men.
Some of these prophets were exiled from their homes through the ignorance of men, others were cut into pieces by the swords of intolerance, some were put on the cross, like His Holiness, Christ-notwithstanding all these insurmountable difficulties they arose to the situation and spread the light and the rays of the Sun of Oneness and Truth.
Then this new age dawned.  The breezes of Providence wafted; the nightingales of the love of God sang; the sun
page 133
of universal consciousness dawned; and the highway of the Kingdom of God was paved and His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, appeared in the land of Tihrán.
When this divine super-human being appeared in that ancient country, then and not till then did the Sun of Reality shine forth; then and not till then did universal peace become the most important problem before the face of the people.
His divine teachings, his spiritual principles, his celestial instructions, shining like unto the refulgent rays of the sun, were spread throughout the East and the West, the North and the South like the leaping forth of the sun from the eastern horizon.
First, through his spiritual power and divine life, Bahá'u'lláh removed from amongst the religions of the Orient religious prejudice and hatred which had been expressed toward one another for ages.
It is almost impossible for the Western, American, people, who are accustomed to live in a liberal country with practically no religious prejudice, to conceive of that hatred, of that religious intolerance exercised in Oriental countries.
Their fanaticism and dogmatic narrow-mindedness went to such an extent that they did not associate with one another; they thought that they were contaminated if they even shook hands with a man who belonged to a contrary faith.  They would not even go into the streets when it was raining for the fear that their wet clothing might come in contact with the clothing of another man walking there who did not belong to their own faith (laughter).
This is not an exaggeration.  It happened often in the Orient that if a man was sick, lying in bed, thirsty for a cup of water and some one would come and offer him a cup, he would open his eyes and ask him, "To what religion do you belong?"  And if the answer was not to his liking he would rather die, and he actually would die by not drinking the water, because this man did not belong to his own religion (laughter).
Only the power of God could transform the hearts of these people, and throw away these prejudices, which had poisoned the very fountain of their lives for many thousand years.
Through the appearance of Bahá'u'lláh these people were so united, so well-knit together, their hearts and minds were cemented to one another to such an extent that if a stranger entered in a meeting where these people were, while formerly they belonged to different religions, at that time, their love, their amity, their friendship toward one another was so genuine and so manifest that he could not distinguish them and he could not find out to what religion they belonged in former days.
When, last year, I arrived in this country, I heard that a large number of Christian ministers had arisen to unite to bring together the various sects and denominations of Christianity under the name of the Inter-Allied Church Movement.  It made me extremely happy, because any attempt to bring about unity is indeed praiseworthy.
But, when I investigated the matter a little more, I found that these worthy gentlemen had very interesting conventions, they had banquets, they sat around decorated tables, they ate chicken salad (laughter) and ice cream, they gave very eloquent speeches on the necessity of unity, and agreed; but once they left those halls, they left, likewise, their talks, with the withered flowers on the tables, and thus they continued to practice the same old dogmas, creeds, and traditions, as though there was no attempt whatsoever to unite the churches.  Nay, rather, we added another denomination to the Christian churches under the name Inter-Allied Church Movement (laughter and applause).
It is as evident as sunlight, that these denominations and sects are the results of dogmas and creeds.  As long as the
page 134
leaders of the churches hold fast to these dogmas and creeds, and think they are the essential foundations of their churches, there shall never be unity or agreement.
What did Bahá'u'lláh accomplish?  He simply washed the slate of the religions of the world clean from all caste, creeds and dogmas.  He attracted the attention of mankind from exterior sanctimony to interior devotion and worship.  He suggested to them to ascend on the top of the mountain where he had given his divine sermons, and once the people of the world gather on the summit of that mountain with those beatitudes, there are no differences, there are no creeds, there are no traditions; but, here, deep in the valley, in the shadow of the mountain there are all kinds of misunderstandings, sorrows and miseries.
Bahá'u'lláh brought into this world the Water of Life from the Paradise of the Kingdom, and with that Water of Life he washed from the hearts all traces of religious, racial and national prejudices-these hearts which were created by God pure and translucent in the beginning but that became filled with these dark clouds and vapours, he caused to return to their original state.
He baptized the hearts and the souls of men with the fire of the love of God and with the spirit of the Word of God.  As long as this eternal idea of universal peace is not planted in the hearts of men, no matter how many thousand Leagues of Nations we may have, how many Parliaments of Man we may establish, they will be used simply as in the play of checkers; these various nations will be used as excuses and pretexts, and these various organizations for no other purpose but to further the schemes and machinations of the plotting governments.
His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, planted the seeds of love, fraternity, brotherhood, humanity and kindness in the field of the universe, and day by day, we see with our own eyes that these seeds are being watered with the heavenly rain; they are growing and sprouting, little by little, till some day a great harvest will be gathered.
This is, therefore, the glorious cycle in which these universal ideals must be fully practised; this is the age in which the hopes, the dreams, of all the prophets must come to pass; this is the time in which the flowers of intelligence must spread their perfumes throughout the world, making the world of humanity one home; the people as the members of one family and the growing plants of one garden.


XII:7, 13 July 1921
page 134
"In this Dispensation consultation with expert doctors is highly advisable"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá on physical health
One of the pilgrims to 'Abdu'l-Bahá sends the following to the Star of the West:  " I am enclosing a most remarkable message of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to my mother about her physical health.  It seems that during my two interviews with him, I neglected to speak about her condition, so when I left I wrote Shoghi Rabbání and explained fully that the doctors disagreed as to what was her trouble, how some advised an operation while others did not.  She did not know what to do.  Shoghi has just sent me a letter saying he has explained fully mother's case to the Master and his answer is this:
"I ever pray on her behalf and beg from God His divine remedy and healing.  As in this Dispensation consultation with expert doctors is highly advisable and acting in accordance with their prescriptions obligatory, it is well for her to undergo an operation if deemed necessary by such doctors."


XII:7, 13 July 1921
page 135
Pen pictures of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America
From The Diary of Juliet Thompson
...
The day after I arrived, Tuesday, 23 April 1912, I met the Master at luncheon at the Embassy.  The table was strewn with rose-leaves, as it always is in 'Akká, and Oriental dishes were served. ...  There had been a long conversation about material and spiritual diseases, their separate origins and separate cures.  Consumption had a spiritual cause; it often originated in grief.  The cure, therefore, must be spiritual.  The cause of insanity was spiritual.  A dear woman present brought up some theories of spiritual causation.  Just at that moment they were serving salad.
"If all the spirits in the air," laughed 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "were to congregate together they could not create a salad!  Nevertheless the spirit of man is powerful; for the spirit of man can soar in the firmament of knowledge, can discover realities, can confer life, can receive the divine Glad-tidings.  Is not this greater than making a salad?" (with another bright laugh).
...
page 137
...
The Turkish ambassador made an address.  He called him "the Unique One
page 138
of the age", "who had come to spread his glory and perfection amongst us."
"I am not worthy of this," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá simply.
Oh, the meekness!  I used to hate that word meekness, especially in connection with Christ, until I saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  Then I realized this:  that it is one of the essential attributes of God's Manifestations, and is a ray of unique power; of such power indeed that I have seen it change the atmosphere.  I am not speaking at random.  This happened at 'Akká when 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "Jesus was the bread that came down from Heaven, but I am the food prepared by the Blessed Beauty Bahá'u'lláh."  A something celestial, affecting me like silver light, filled the room.  Perhaps I should put it in this way, that it is one of the attributes of the Servant, and when the Manifestation in the station of the Servant shows forth this attribute, which is identical with self-effacement, and all traces of the Servant disappear, then the station of the Glory atone is seen.  "There was God and there was nothing with Him." ...
"Nothing save the love of God endures!" said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, as he drove in the park one day with Mrs _____ and myself.  "Look at these trees all in blossom now!"  And in words which I will not attempt to quote he described the inevitable coming of autumn.  "This is a symbol of the human life," he said.  "Remember Babylon."  He drew vividly for us a picture of the former Babylon, its pomp and splendour; then of Babylon today, the ruins of today, "empty save for the hyena prowling among its crumbling stones, silent except for the voice of the owl at night or the song of the lark in the lonely day."  "Remember Tyre," he continued.  "Here, too, was beauty and splendour and pomp.  Think of Tyre now!  I have been there.  I have seen." ...
One day I stayed after the meeting to see Edna Belmont, who was serving 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the telephone upstairs.
While we were talking, suddenly the Master came into the room.
"I am just going out for a drive," he said, "but stay till I return, Edna, and you, too, Juliet, stay.  I will see you when I return."
So I waited; I waited and waited.  Half-past six came; seven!  Our dinner was to be at half-past seven, and where I was going was a long way off, rather indirect on the car line and I had not kept the motor!
"Go, Juliet, I will explain," urged Edna.  But I could not.  He had told me to stay.
And now I am going to digress and tell you what seems another story!  I was certainly no more than ten years old when a very presumptuous aspiration took possession of my infant mind.  I began to dream of some day painting the Christ.  I even prayed for it!  Child though I was I violently hated the accepted conceptions of the Christ-sweet, effeminate, ineffectual.  "I will paint a King!" I said, "the King of Love."
And I never lost this hope till I saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Then I knew that no one could ever paint the Christ!  The life of the Spirit of Life, that animation, the endless revealing, the glory!  How could these be captured in material?  Can you paint the lightning?
It was a little after seven when the Master came back.  Entering the room where he had left me and where of course I was still waiting, he said:
"Ah, Juliet!  For your sake I returned.  Mrs Hemmick wanted to keep me, but I had asked you to wait; therefore I returned."  After a slight pause he added, "Would you like to come up and paint me tomorrow?"
So I learned the reward of obedience.  Once in Haifa he said to me:  "Keep my words; obey my commands and you will marvel at the results."
By a miracle I was not late for the dinner.
The next morning I went to him early with my box of pastels, but though it
page 139
was only eight o'clock, quite a crowd had gathered already and I felt that our morning was doomed to be a broken one.  Not only that, but the light in all the rooms I saw was very poor and weak; and the delicate wallpapers with bunches of flowers on them you could not think of putting behind his head!  For a while I was in despair, for I dared not offer the suggestion that was in my mind.  In the end, however, the artist overcame the disciple in me and, begging 'Abdu'l-Bahá to forgive me if I were doing a wrong thing, I asked if he would pose in New York instead.  This he consented to do so freely and sweetly that I had no more qualms about it.
The next day, while I was waiting in the hall to be announced, a door opened and there stood 'Abdu'l-Bahá, beckoning to me.  He was alone, so we had to fall back on his English and my Persian.  A precious little talk it was!
Then the translator arrived.
"Tell Juliet," began 'Abdu'l-Bahá at once, "that she teaches well." (I repeat this praise only because it is his!)  "I have met many people who have been affected by you, Juliet.  You are not eloquent, you are not fluent, but your heart teaches.  You speak with an emotion, a feeling which makes people ask, 'What is this that she has?'  Then they inquire! they seek and find.  It is so, too, with Lua.  You never find Lua speaking with dry eyes.  You will be confirmed; a great bounty will descend upon you.  You will become eloquent.  Your tongue will be loosed.  Teach, always teach.  The confirmations of the Holy Spirit will descend upon those who teach constantly.  Never feel fear.  The Holy Spirit will give you the words to say.  Never fear.  You will grow stronger and stronger."
His vibrant power as he spoke thrilled me and fear was banished forever from my mind.  The grand courage of that erect head and uplifted hand, the absolute confidence in God for me-I am sure I shall always see this when in the future I begin to speak.
New York
...
On 13 May a meeting of the Peace Conference was held at the Hotel Astor, at which 'Abdu'l-Bahá was the guest of honour and the chief speaker.
'Abdu'l-Bahá was really too exhausted to have gone to that meeting.  He had been in bed all day.
"Must you go to the Hotel Astor when you are so ill?" I asked him.
page 140
"I work by the confirmations of the Holy Spirit," he answered, "I do not work by hygienic laws.  If I did I would get nothing done!"
...
On the 21 May, also before 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to Boston, Mrs Tatum had a reception to which he came.  The people who were there were of the fashionable world, with a sprinkling of artists and the literary set.
Suddenly there was a stir among the people, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá was in our midst.  He walked over to a big yellow couch in the bay-window and sat down.  I think I must tell you how he looked there.  His surroundings were all white; sunlight streamed in; the shadows on his face were translucent; his profile was outlined with a luminous pencilling; his background was the crystal of the wide central window pane, the sky beyond.  Behind him stood the Persians.
Soon he began to speak.
He was very happy, he said, to be with us.  Think of the contrast!  His outlook for years had been a prison window and he had been confined within the limits of a fortress; now he found himself in spacious homes.
His talk, at first apparently desultory, gradually shaped itself toward some distinct point, which, however, he kept veiled until the end.  I wondered what was coming.  When it came it was like a thunderclap.
"Think of it!" he said.  "Two kings were dethroned in order that I might be freed!  This is naught but pure destiny!"
"And now," ended the Master, rising to his feet with the action of a king, "you here in America must work with me for the peace of the world and the oneness of humanity."
And with this he left us, the room seeming strangely empty after he had gone.
I must paint one a word-picture, a morning in-how curious, I started to say "The Ridván", I mean-Riverside Drive, in that hallowed little strip of a park which we all love to call "his garden" into which he escaped so often to rest, which is holy with his prayers, or where we sometimes walked with him in the evenings, or he took his daily exercise.  Just a gravel path, some benches and young trees and a low stone wall shutting off the slope to the river far below, but unspeakably beautiful forever to me.  Morning, as I started to say, in our Ridván; 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the sunlight, his turban glistening white in it, pouring attar of rose on our hands and heads, pouring it out lavishly and with an incense of universal love breathing from him as he did it which it is impossible to describe, as though love indeed were the one delectable thing in the universe and the source of all joy.  Oh that love!  The pale, sparkling early morning sunshine, the perfume, that figure in the graceful flowing robes and the glistening turban, the centre of a force which made everyone around him as non-existent!
There is something almost miraculous in the way 'Abdu'l-Bahá takes the sunlight.  No one else looks so bright in it.  It makes him translucent, like a shining mirror.


XII:8, 1 August 1921
page 145
Pen pictures of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America (continued)
From The Diary of Juliet Thompson
Yesterday morning, 12 June 1913, I went up early to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's house, that house whose door opened about eight in the morning and kept open (with no one to guard it) until midnight!
He had been away and I had not seen him for three days.  I had brought my pastels, thinking he might want to sit for me, but I found him looking utterly spent.  He was in the lower reception room, or hall, the English basement of the house, and Valiyu'lláh Khán was with him.  He looked up with brilliant eyes.
"What do you want of us, Juliet?" he smiled.
"Only to be near you!" (I had hidden my pastels.)
"You must excuse me from sitting for the portrait today.  I am not able today."
Then he talked to us a little, but soon went out alone, to "the garden", leaving Ruth, Valiyu'lláh and me together.
"It is wonderful," said Ruth as 'Abdu'l-Bahá went, "to see how the world is quickened today in all directions."
"And to know," I added, "that the voice that is quickening it, so powerfully quickening it, is that tender voice that spoke to us just now."
Today (12 June) I went up early to his house, but not early enough.  As I turned into 78th Street, I saw him at the other end of the block on his way to the garden, his turban a dazzling spot in the sunlight, his robes floating out with great grace as he walked.
Later he returned.  Miss Buckton had arrived by that time and a poor little waif of humanity, a Jewess.  She was all in black, this poor child, with a little pale face, careworn and tearworn.
I had been in the kitchen with Lua.  I came out upon a scene dominated by the Master.  He was sitting, as usual, at the window, the strong carving of his face thrown into high relief by masses of shadow, his turban and white 'abá bright in the sunlight.  On one side sat Miss Buckton, on the other, this poor stricken child.  While the biggest tears I had ever seen splashed from her eyes she told him her hopelessly dismal story.
"Don't grieve now, don't grieve," he said.  He was very, very still, and I think he was calming her.
"My brother has been in prison for three years.  He was imprisoned unjustly.  It was not his fault; he was led; he was weak, a victim of others.  He has four more years to serve.  My father and mother are depressed all the time.  My brother-in-law, who was our support, has just died."
There it was, the sum of human misery:  poverty, weakness, disgrace, sorrow, despair and the maddening pall of gloom.
"You must trust in God," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
"But the more I trust the worse things become!" she sobbed.
"You have never trusted."
"But my mother is reading the psalms all the time.  She does not deserve that God should desert her so!  I read the psalms myself, the ninety-first psalm
page 146
and the twenty-third psalm every night before I go to bed.  I pray, too."
"To pray is not to read psalms.  To pray is to trust in God and to be submissive in all things to Him.  Be submissive, then things will change for you.  Put your family in God's hands.  Love God's will.  Strong ships are not conquered by the sea; they ride the waves!  Now be a strong ship, not a battered one."
At noon I took Mr _____ to him.  As we sat alone in the library, waiting for 'Abdu'l-Bahá to return from the garden, I said:
"I think what he said at Mr Gifford Pinchot's last week was very interesting, that the people were rising like a great tide, wave upon wave, and unless the capitalists realized soon, they would be driven out with violence; that the people in the future would not work for wages, but for an interest in the concerns."
Just then Lua appeared at the door of the room where she had been sitting, bending toward the stairway with beautiful reverence.
"He is coming?" I asked.
"Yes, he is coming, Juliet."
He came into the room with both hands extended, and in a voice like a chime from his heart he said:
"Oh-h, Mr ____, Mr _____!"
Such love, such gladness, such sweetness, such welcome!
Then I slipped out.
When I re-entered the room 'Abdu'l-Bahá was signing a photograph for Mr _____, rather, writing a prayer on it.
"And now," 'Abdu'l-Bahá said as he presented it, "you must give me your photograph.  I want your face.  I have given you mine, now you must give me yours."
"I will pray for you," he added, as he said farewell to Mr _____.  "I will mention you daily in my prayers."
'Abdu'l-Bahá detained me a moment.
As I rejoined Mr _____, Valiyu'lláh Khán was entering the house.  We (Mr _____ and I) were both out in an automobile.
"Do you see that young man going into the house?" I asked.  "That is Valiyu'lláh Khán.  His father was cut into pieces alive while his own little son (Valiyu'lláh Khán's youngest brother) was forced to look on at the butchery."
"'If you will deny Bahá'u'lláh,' the executioners said to the child, 'we will take you to the palace of the Sháh and honours and wealth will be heaped upon you.'
"'But I do not want these things,' the little fellow answered.
"'Then, if you do not deny him,' they continued, 'we will kill you worse than your father.'  (I am expressing this just as Valiyu'lláh Khán did, in his English.)
"'You may kill me a thousand times worse,' was the reply.  'Is my blood of more value than my father's?  To die in the path of Bahá'u'lláh is my supreme desire.'  Then they fell on the child and choked him.
"A day or two ago," I continued, "Valiyu'lláh Khán asked me about the portrait of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-how it was getting on.  'One should paint the soul in a portrait, I think,' he said.
"'But who can paint the soul of 'Abdu'l-Bahá?' I asked.
"'We can paint it with our blood.'  He replied, very gently, but with kindling eyes."
The next day, Wednesday, 13 June, as usual I went very early to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's, so early that no one was there, that is, no callers.  Some of the Persians, of course, were with him-Valiyu'lláh Khán and Mírzá 'Alí Akbar.  I found them in the lower reception hall, the English basement.  The Master was sitting in the big chair in the corner by the window.
After a while he went out.  When he returned, after he had given some private interviews to those waiting, he talked to people, on the first floor, sit-
page 147
ting at the far end of the room, his back to the window, into which the sun poured.  The strongest image in my memory is this luminous one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá sitting by the window, the majestic head dominating the holy figure, teaching us with smiles and gestures divine.
The meeting over, a few of us went upstairs.  'Abdu'l-Bahá looked in, calling Juliet!" whereupon I joyously ran out to him.
"Bring your things in here and paint now," he said, pointing to the front room, the library.
Oh, these sittings, so wonderful, yet so difficult!  We move from room to room, from background to background, light to light.  He has given me three half hours, each time in a different room.  And-'Abdu'l-Bahá, who could paint him? ...
The next morning, Thursday, I went up very early to the house, but did not see the Master.  But Lua and I had a wonderful talk with Valiyu'lláh Khán.
"My father," said Valiyu'lláh Khán, "was much with Bahá'u'lláh.  One night Bahá'u'lláh, as he strode back and forth in his room, said to my father:
"'At stated periods souls are sent to earth by the Mighty God with what we call the power of the great ether.  And those who possess this power can do anything; they have all power.  Even this walk of mine,' said Bahá'u'lláh, 'has an effect in the world.  Jesus Christ had this power.  The people thought him a poor young man whom they had crucified; but he possessed the power of the great ether, therefore he could not remain underground.  This ethereal power rose and quickened the world.  And now look to the Master,' said Bahá'u'lláh, 'for this power is his!'
"Bahá'u'lláh," added Valiyu'lláh Khán, "taught my father much about Áqá.  Áqá (Master) you know is one of the titles of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and the Greatest Mystery of God is another, and the Greatest Branch is another.  By all these we call him in Persia.  The Blessed Perfection, Bahá'u'lláh, revealed the station of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to my father.  And my father wrote many poems to the Master, though the Master would scold him and say, 'You must not write such things to me!'  But the heart of my father could not keep quiet.  Once he wrote:
"'O Dawning-Place of the Beauty of God!  I know Thee!
Though Thou wrappest Thyself in ten thousand veils-I know Thee!
Though Thou shouldst wear the tatters of a beggar-still would I know Thee!'"
In the afternoon I returned with my mother.  'Abdu'l-Bahá received us in his room, full of lilies and carnations and roses.
"A-h-h, Mrs Thompson!  Marhabá!  Marhabá!" ("Welcome".)
The intonation of that "Marhabá!"-a welcome from a heart deeper than any human heart; a welcome indeed!  Only this generation may know it on earth, but it is before all the world in the future at the threshold of Heaven!
The next morning I saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá alone and we spoke of a friend, who had failed to understand 'Abdu'l-Bahá's meaning the other day, thinking he meant to teach asceticism, that the spirit and the flesh were two separate things.
"That is not what I said," replied 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "I said that the spiritual man and the materialist were two different beings.  The spirit is in the flesh," he added.
"Yes, I know," I answered, beaming at the beauty of this and its deep significance, for there it all was-everything was said in those six words.
Those precious sittings, so few, with dear May and Lua praying beside me while I worked, perceiving and encouraging while I painted with a breathless and blind speed, lifted up on a wave of inspiration, only feeling!
page 150
"The Holy Spirit, alone, can paint this portrait," I said to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "All confirmation comes from the Centre of the Covenant.  Oh, inspire me!"
"You will be inspired," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "for you are painting only for the sake of God."
Then I let go, relying on his promise and on the prayers of May and Lua; and then a great wave of inspiration came, lifting me to unimagined heights of confidence, endowing me with clear, sure perception, above all, filling, thrilling me with feeling, so profound and immense that my hand, strangely certain, as direct as though guided by a more powerful one, trembled so it could scarcely execute.  In five half-hours the portrait was done (all except a sitting for the last touches)-each day in a different light and environment.2
To be painting from the face that mirrors the Face of God and realizing this!  Oh, artists of the future, think what that means, and forgive the inadequate expression I have left to you.  Because of these great difficulties I could not make a studied portrait, it is only a sketch.  The light was unspeakably weak and poor, everything external was against me.  But they say it is really like 'Abdu'l-Bahá-he, himself, says so.  He said, "It is the very nature."  But nothing is like him to me.  That immortal flash of the eyes, that mouth superhumanly mobile, the piercing sweetness and brilliancy of the look, the celestial light of the ever-changing face-who could paint?  An emanation of holiness that is almost visible, I can find no words for it.  You will have to wait, oh people who are to come! till you see him in the Supreme Concourse.
There was that other day, when in his address to the believers 'Abdu'l-Bahá declared himself the Centre of the Covenant.  The words are on record, though not all, some he himself struck out when the notes were presented to him, so that the record is less strong, more guarded than the spoken words were.  They were uttered with a great calm.  That day was the 19 June. ...


XII:9, 20 August 1921
page 156
Pen pictures of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America (continued)
From The Diary of Juliet Thompson
21 June, 'Abdu'l-Bahá went to Montclair.  Two days later Lua Getsinger, Georgie Ralston and I were with him in Montclair.
He served at the table that day.  I shall never forget his look of mystery as he entered with a dish of fruit.  It was a glass bowl, filled with golden peaches.  Without turning his head-his face was set straight before him and was strangely and majestically still in expression-he turned a piercing glance on Lua and myself.  It was a glance like a sword, strangely watchful as it flashed from the corners of his eyes while his face was turned almost profile.
Before lunch, having banished Lua, Georgia and me to the back porch, he joined us there, striding up and down and talking to us.  As he walked he shook us with his power.  I felt myself renewed in the current of life eddying from him.  I felt myself sparkle with this vivification, this exhilaration.
His eyes-those eyes of light, which seem to be, and are, ever looking into heaven, into that mysterious plane hidden from our sight, and when they alight for an instant upon earth glance away at once, back to the mysteries-were more than ever brilliantly restless that day; his whole being indeed was restless with a strange force.  It seemed as though the lightning of the Spirit could scarcely endure to remain harnessed to the body.  His whole bearing was unusually foreign to earth.  He seemed almost out of the body.
While we were sitting around him on the porch I told him that a woman I knew, who had seen him once but knew nothing of him, had said she would like to "live near him".
He laughed.  "She does not want to live near me.  She only wants a good time!"
Then he grew serious.  "To live near me," he said, "one must have my aims and objects.  Do you remember the rich young man who wanted to live near Christ and when he found out what it cost to live near him-that it meant to give away all his possessions, and to take up a cross and follow Christ-then," 'Abdu'l-Bahá laughed, "he fled away!
"Among the disciples of the Báb," continued 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "were two, his amanuensis and a firm believer.  On the eve of the Báb's martyrdom, the believer prayed, 'Oh, let me die with you!'
"The amanuensis said, 'What shall I do?'
"'What shall I do!' laughed the Master, in gentle mockery, 'What do you want me to do?'
"The Báb said, 'Protect yourself.'
"The disciple died with the Báb, his head upon the breast of the Báb, and their bodies were mingled in death.  The amanuensis died in prison anyway, but think of the difference in their stations!
page 157
"There was another martyr," continued 'Abdu'l-Bahá after a moment.
"Mírzá _____ of Shíráz.  He saw Bahá'u'lláh only once, but he so loved the Blessed Beauty that he could not help but follow him to Tihrán, though Bahá'u'lláh had told him to remain with his aged parents, who had also become believers.
"Still he followed!  And when he reached Tihrán, it was just at the time that a great persecution had fallen upon the Bahá'ís because of the attempt on the life of Násiri'd-Dín Sháh by two fanatical believers; and Bahá'u'lláh had been cast into a dungeon; and it was in the dungeon that Mírzá _____ Shírází found the Blessed Perfection again, when, asking for Bahá'u'lláh, he was led to the dungeon to be chained, with other disciples, to his Master!  So he found him again!  The disciples were all bound by the same chain to Bahá'u'lláh.  Set into the chain were iron collars which were fastened by iron pins around the neck, and each day a believer was unchained and killed, until Bahá'u'lláh alone was left; and none knew whose turn would be next.  The first intimation they received that their time had come was when the jailer took out the pin from the collar.  This was the sign.
"And one day the pin was taken out from Mírzá _____ Shírází's collar.  Then Mírzá _____ Shírází stepped joyfully forward.  First he kissed the feet of the Blessed Beauty and then-"
Suddenly 'Abdu'l-Bahá's whole aspect changed.  It was as though the spirit of the martyr had entered into him, or as though-the thought stabbed my heart-as though his prophetic spirit was enacting the tragedy to come, when 'Abdu'l-Bahá himself, the Centre of the Covenant of God, would go forth in ecstasy to his own martyrdom.
When that day comes, that day of tears for heaven and shame for earth, I shall see 'Abdu'l-Bahá as he was at Montclair.  With his head thrillingly erect, snapping his fingers high in the air, beating on the porch with his foot till we could scarcely endure the vibrations set up,-such electric power radiated from him-he sang the martyr's song-ecstatic and tragic beyond anything I had ever heard.
This was what the Cause meant, then!  This was what it meant to "live near him!"  Another realm opened to me, the realm of divine tragedy.
"And thus," ended 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "singing and dancing Mírzá _____ Shírází went to his death and a hundred executioners fell on him!  Later his old parents came to Bahá'u'lláh praising God that their son had given his life in the path of God!"
He sank back into his chair.  Tears swelled in my eyes, blurring everything.  When they cleared, I saw a yet stranger look in his face.  His eyes were unmistakably fixed on the Invisible.  They were as brilliant as jewels and so filled with delight that they almost made his vision real to us.  A smile of exultation played on his lips.  Very low, so that it sounded like an echo, he hummed the martyr's song.
"See!"  he exclaimed, "the effect that the death of a martyr has in the world.  It has changed my condition."
There was a moment of silence, then he asked:
"What is it, Juliet, that you are pondering so deeply?"
"I was thinking of the look in your face when you said your condition had been changed.  I was thinking I had seen a flash of the joy of God over those who die happily for humanity."
Soon he spoke of Mary Magdalene.
"There was one name," he said, "that always brought joy to the face of Bahá'u'lláh.  His expression would change at the mention of it.  It was Mary Magdalene." ...
__________
I did not see 'Abdu'l-Bahá again till the day of the feast, the 29 June, at
page 158
West Englewood.  Then I entered his presence in Roy Wilhelm's house.
I had gone to West Englewood with Silvia.  We walked up from the little station, through the sweet, wild country, past the grove where the tables were set for the feast, a great circle cleared of underbrush, shady and fragrant with tall pine-trees, in the midst of tangled woods; then on up to the house where he was, he whose presence filled our eyes with light and without whom our days had been very dim and lifeless!
Ah, there he was again!  There on a corner of the porch that unique figure in the flowing garments, which meant the Heavenly Garment to us!  We sat on the porch with him for a while.  Later he led us to the grove.  There he talked to the people, sitting beneath a great tree, with a poor old woman on one side, very poor and humble, but with the most shining faith, and on the other Mrs Krug, with her radiant prettiness and rich clothes.  His words have been preserved, I will not repeat them; I remember them, besides, very imperfectly.  But he said one thing which woke all my being:  "This is a New Day, a New Hour!"  I could not take notes-it was so beautiful, so life-bestowing to watch him, as he sat beneath that great tree, the people grouped in circles around him, teaching them as Jesus used to do in the open-rustling leaves and sky above his head!


XII:10, 8 September 1921
page 167
Pen pictures of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in America (continued)
From The Diary of Juliet Thompson
At the end of the divine talk the feast was ready; but no sooner had this been announced than a sudden storm blew up.  There was a peal of thunder, the clouds rolled very low.  'Abdu'l-Bahá stepped out into the road and went to the extreme end of it, where there was a crossroad.  There a chair had been left, and, as I watched him from a distance, I saw him sit down while the Persians stood around him.  I then saw him lift his face to the sky.  He had gone very far from the house; the thunder was still threatening and the clouds were ominously black.  Suddenly a change came with the wind.  The clouds began to flee across the sky, blue patches appeared, the sun came out!  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá rejoined us in the grove.  This I saw.
Later as we sat at the tables, he anointed us with rose-water.  I was not at a table, but sitting on the ground beneath a tree, with one or two believers.
"Friends here!" smiled 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  In his voice was a deep and thrilling joy, the union of hearts gives him such rest.
But the wonderful, the indescribably wonderful time came later.  'Abdu'l-Bahá went out alone and remained for hours.  When he returned it was dark.  A few of us were sitting on the porch.  Below us on the grass sat the people, that is, those who had lingered.  Their white clothes in the dusk were as soft as moth wings.  In their hands they held burning tapers, really to keep off mosquitoes! but the effect was of tiny wands tipped with red stars and the incense was like some Eastern temple.  It was a fairy-like picture.
'Abdu'l-Bahá took a chair in the centre of the step, and delicately holding a taper himself, he spoke in words of flame.  I can see it all vividly still-and shall through my life-those trembling
page 171
red stars among the dim white figures on the grass, behind them a wonderful tall tree, luxuriant with rolling outlines, now a great black cloud against the silver stars.
'Abdu'l-Bahá I could not see, as I was at his back, but his words were all the more powerful for that.  Often I lose the words in gazing at his face.  He had turned before beginning to speak and given me a long and unfathomable look.
That speech, thank God, is recorded-otherwise the words could never be remembered.  It was a reverberating call to his disciples to rise in this Day of the Great Resurrection out of the tomb of self and revivify the world with him.
Before he had finished, he rose from his chair and started down the path, passing between the white figures, now risen to their feet, with their trembling red stars.
"Peace be with you," he said, as he receded into the darkness, the rich, liquid Persian and the quivering translation floating back to us from his invisibility-"I will pray for you."
Ah, the Divine Figure growing dimmer and dimmer till at last the darkness engulfed it!  Ah, the voice that came back even when the figure was out of sight!  May I remember this in the future; nay, how could I forget it? ...
"On the Fourth of July three years ago," I remarked to 'Abdu'l-Bahá on that day, "Mrs Kinney and I were with you in 'Akká.  You took us to the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh.  I never dreamed I would keep an anniversary with you in New York!"
At another time that evening he spoke of tests.  "Even the sword," he said, "is no test to the Persian believers.  They are given a chance to recant; they cry out instead, 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!'  Then the sword is raised; they cry out all the more, 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!'" ...
I write words, but nothing can convey the subtle influence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-the fragrance of his love, falling on our hearts like balm, exhilarating our spirits, changing even our physical aspect, brightening the eyes, bringing colour to pale faces, freshening all with joy.  The fragrance of his love, the power of his peace, the currents of life streaming out from that strong Centre-that calm and glowing Centre.  In his presence we are in Heaven.
"And a man shall be as a shelter from the wind, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land!" ...
__________
On Monday, 9 July, I went with 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the little band of Persians to the Natural History Museum.  It was a very hot day.  When we reached the Ninth Avenue corner of the Museum, where the employees' entrance is located, there was still a long stretch of sun between us and the main door and 'Abdu'l-Bahá was evidently so weary that I felt we must find some nearer [the] entrance for him.  So, while he sat down to rest on a ledge of the embankment, I went ahead to look for one.  The employees' door was locked, so I hurried on farther, even venturing past a sign marked "No thoroughfare".  But just as I succeeded in passing this I was stopped by a whistle and turned to face the watchman.  He was a little old Jew with a kind face.  I explained why I was breaking the rules and asked if he could lead us to a door nearer than the main one.  He turned and looked at 'Abdu'l-Bahá, at that figure from the East, from the past-not of this world or this time at all, sitting so quiet, on the ledge of the embankment; and his face softened curiously.
"Come with me," he said.  Then, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the rest of us followed him:  "Is he a Jew?"
"No," I said.  "He is 'Abdu'l-Bahá of Persia."
The old Jew asked nothing more,
page 172
though I sensed that he wished to, but I did not feel at liberty to speak.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, himself, was there to speak.
We went through the Museum, 'Abdu'l-Bahá being quite amused with the big whale, saying:  "He could hold seventy Jonahs."
In the Mexican exhibit, which interested him very much, he remarked on the close resemblance of the sculpture to what had been found in Egypt.  "Only, this is better," he said.
"There is a tradition," I ventured, "of a connection between this country and Asia in the far past?"
"Assuredly," he answered, "before a great catastrophe there was connection between Asia and America."
Though 'Abdu'l-Bahá had already rested in the Museum, he sat down again outside, on a soft little curve of ground beneath a young tree.  He sat some little time there, we standing behind him on the flags of the walk.  Was he waiting for some one?
Bye and bye the old watchman stole up to us.
"Is he tired?" he whispered softly to me.  "Who is he; he looks like a great man."
Divining that the Jew was a socialist, I replied that 'Abdu'l-Bahá was a great sufferer for the cause of brotherhood.  Then I told him something of the story of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's sufferings.
"I should like to speak to him," said the watchman, so I led him to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá looked up, his brilliant eyes full of sweetness.
"Come and sit by me," he said.
"No, I must not," answered the watchman.
"Is it against the rules for me to sit on the grass?" asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
"No-you may sit there all day!"
"You didn't see the whole of the Museum," continued the old watchman.  "Would you like to go back after you have rested?  There are the fossils and the birds."
"No," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, smiling.  "I am tired of going about looking at the things of this world.  I want to go above and travel and see in the spiritual worlds.  What do you think about that?" he asked suddenly, with another luminous smile.
The old watchman looked puzzled and scratched his head.
"Which would you rather possess?" pursued 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "the material or the spiritual world?"
"Well, I guess the material," the watchman answered seriously.  "You know you have that, anyway!"
"But you do not lose it when you attain the spiritual.  When you go upstairs in a house, you do not leave the house.  The lower floor is under you."
"Oh, yes!"  All of a sudden the light broke from the old man's face.
Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá rose and, standing beneath that young tree, the sun shining on his robes, taught the old Jew, with his irrefutable logic, yet with irresistible smiles and charm, of the spiritual agreement of Christ and Moses.  Oh, if only I could make you see that picture, call it into life again for you!-the old Jew and his unrecognized Messiah, this one of whom he had asked, "Is he a Jew?" who so strangely magnetized him and inspired him with tenderness and awe-the touched, questioning face of the Jew, and, the Radiant Stranger, like the vision of some long-past prophet, the "Ancient of Days" and "the Divine Youth" in one, by some strange alchemy of spirit.  Surely, the Jew must have felt something.  Christians had said of this visitor from the East:  "That Figure makes me think of the plains of Judea"; "I seemed to be talking with Moses, or Isaiah".  Race-instinct, deep race-hopes, must have stirred within the Jew.
(I returned a number of times to the Museum to try to find the old watchman, but I never saw his face again.  He must have been called very soon "upstairs in the house".)


XII:8, 1 August 1921
page 148
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Portion of a Tablet revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the spring of 1904 for Mrs I. D. Brittingham, New York City, America.
Thou hast written regarding the tests and trials to be manifested in the American countries.  Know this, that hardships and misfortune shall increase day by day, and the people will be distressed.  The doors of joy and happiness shall be closed upon all sides; terrible wars shall happen.  Disappointment and the frustration of hopes shall surround the people from every direction, until they are obliged to turn to God.  Then the Lights of great happiness will enlighten the horizons, so that the cry of 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!' may arise upon all sides.  This will happen!"
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


XII:9, 20 August 1921
page 153
Bahá'í organization
Notes from memory written at the request of several friends, from a talk given at the home of Herr and Frau Kommerzinrat Schwarz, in reply to questions of Herr Jaeger, Saturday, 20 November 1920.
Charles Mason Remey
Spiritual consultation is one of the fundamental principles of the Bahá'í organization.  As the work of the Cause increases it is found to be necessary that such consultation be established for the guidance, well-being, and stability of the work.  For this end in various assemblies of Bahá'ís, according to the instructions of the Centre of the Covenant, boards of spiritual consultation have been established for the organization and direction of the activities of the Cause.
When the friends assemble for spiritual consultation, it has been found to be good to read prayers and Tablets in order that all human thoughts in the minds of those present be changed to divine thoughts, that the spirit of the Kingdom penetrate into the souls of all present, thus a spiritual harmony is established which is the most necessary element of Bahá'í consultation.
After reading of the holy Utterances the various subjects to be considered may be presented.  It has been found best to consider each matter in turn, all present concentrating upon one question until that question is settled-then proceeding to the next matter.  With this procedure there is no confusion of thought nor diffusion of energies.
In meetings of consultation it has been found to be important that each member present should speak freely and without constraint, always with great gentleness and consideration for the happiness of all present.  It is good for each one of the people of the board of consultation to express himself in turn.  When the circuit of all present has been made, it will often be found that the thoughts expressed by the friends give rise to other thoughts in the minds, and then it is well to have a second or a third opportunity for each to express himself.  With this full expression of thoughts, when these thoughts are in harmony with the principles and the spirit of the Cause, the condition is made for decisions based upon the spiritual instructions and methods of the kingdom.
In consultation the best results can not be attained when the people do not express the convictions and thoughts which lie deep in their hearts, for when they feel constrained the heart is distressed, and cannot function spiritually with the hearts of the others present, and when the hearts are constrained perfect consultation is not attained.
When the heart is expressing itself freely it is in joy and happiness, and this is an essential element in consultation; without it true spiritual guidance is not attainable, therefore great care should be taken that each one present should express himself fully in all spiritual joy and gladness of heart.
With a good knowledge of the teachings, upon which basis of the revealed Word all Bahá'í considerations should be based, and with an exaltation of the spirit of the Covenant, the friends in consultation are of one spirit, and of one thought, and there is a unity of
page 154
thought.  This is only attainable with knowledge of the teachings when the hearts of all present are in the utmost state of severance and humbleness before the threshold of the Covenant.  When this ideal condition exists, the right solutions of all questions are found, and there are no doubts in the hearts of the consultors.  However, at times ideal conditions may not exist, and there may be a division of opinion among the members of the assembly.  Under these conditions the beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá has instructed the believers to cast a vote, and for those in the minority to abide by the will of the majority.  It has been found by adhering to this command that a harmony is maintained which bridges over, as it were, the times when opinions are divided-then later, when the people have a better knowledge of the teachings, and a more abundant confirmation of the Spirit, their difference of opinion will cease to exist, and eventually they will unite in support of the reality of the Covenant.
Some of the friends of the Bahá'í Cause have been a little confused regarding the organization of the holy Cause because of the wide circulation of some words, to the effect that this Cause should never be organized-thus some have imagined that no form of Bahá'í organization should exist.  Now of late we are informed by pilgrims returning to their homes from Palestine that 'Abdu'l-Bahá has explained that these words circulated to the effect that the Cause should never be organized, give an impression very different found that of the reality of his teachings.  Experience in the Bahá'í Cause shows us that when special questions arise, it is always well to gather together all of the holy Words treating of the subject, for when studying all of the divine teachings treating of any one subject we obtain an all around and a comprehensive conception of the truth of the matter.  From one short excerpt from the holy Words, separated from its context, erroneous meanings may be obtained.  This danger does not exist when we study the particular statement in its rightful relation with the entire teaching.
Applying this principle of the relation of any one statement contained in the holy Words to the instructions in the entire teaching to this statement that "the Bahá'í Cause can never be organized", we see immediately that there is a discrepancy, for in the principles of the Cause we find the foundation for a very highly developed spiritual organization which will centre about the establishment of the Bahá'í House of Justice.  Ample provision for this institution is found in the revealed Word.  The House of Justice will be the organic centre of the Bahá'í Cause.  Its duties will be so important as to be the central point of all Bahá'í matters in this world, even to the explanation and amplification of the holy way Words.  This will be a spiritual organization.
Let us consider these two kinds of organization, namely, human and divine, or organizations spiritually inorganic and spiritually organic.  In a spiritually organic institution there is life and growth, the organization ministering to the growth of the activities of the institution and in no way cramping nor obstructing its life and development.  However, it is quite the opposite with a spiritually inorganic institution-one in which the workings are so lifeless, crystallized and inflexible as to preclude all possibility of life, growth and development, [or of] following the principles of divine organization.  In the spiritually inorganic realm there is no movement and no change, and consequently no growth nor development.  In other words, there is crystallization but no life.  For example, compare a living plant with a fossil.  In one we have organization and life, whereas in the other we have crystallization or fossilization and death.  Applying this principle to religion, we see that the Manifestations of God have
page 155
brought divine life and have established spiritual organizations in the world, but with the passage of time, as these organizations have lost their spiritual power and become crystallized forms of human thought, the spiritual life of religion becomes extinguished, and, as with the fossil, only the external form remains.  The spiritual organization of the Bahá'í Cause is based upon divine doctrines, and the living principles of God's Kingdom, and not upon external or human forms and principles.  In other words, the Bahá'í Cause is not an inflexible organization, for it has life in it, and consequently its details are ever changing and moving, allowing growth and development.  Thus it may be truly said that the Bahá'í Cause is not crystallized, but that it is organized.
In carrying on the Bahá'í work, it is necessary that we should organize our institutions upon the divine plan outlined in the teaching, rather than according to the standards of men.  When the work is thus spiritually organized, the forms of organization are so supple as to admit of limitless expansion and development; thus this spiritual organization is ever ministering to the life and growth of the Cause.  However, if methods of human organization creep into the Bahá'í work, the growth of the Cause is hampered, and troubles ensue, and such continue until the cause is removed.  When an iron band is placed around a living tree one of two things happen; if the band remains intact it kills the tree or seriously impairs its life; or the growth of the tree bursts asunder the band.  So it is with the Bahá'í Cause and the limitations of human thought.  The life of the Cause will be impaired unless these human fetters give way, allowing the Cause to grow and develop after the divine plan of the Kingdom.  The revealed utterances of the Revelation are the basis of all activities amongst the Bahá'ís.  A careful study of these principles is necessary in order that they be put into effect in the working of the Cause.
As explained in the revealed Words, the duty of a spiritual board of consultation is to meet in the spirit of the Kingdom in order to apply the divine principles of the Abhá Kingdom to the various problems which are continually arising in the administration of the Cause.  In order to attain the best results in consultation, each of the members of the board should be well informed regarding the divine commands in order that with love and oneness of spirit they may unite in carrying out these holy instructions in the workings of the assembly.
For example, when any special problem presents itself for solution, it is well to make a study of the holy Words pertaining to the question.  Then, when these words are familiar to all the friends of the consultation body and their hearts are freed from the self, they will be spiritually guided in their consultations and deliberations, and the result will be good for the well-being and the growth of the Cause.
According to the Bahá'í standard, the first requisite for the board of spiritual consultation in an assembly of friends, is that the members should be firm in the Covenant and well versed and strong in the teachings and in the principles of the Bahá'í Cause, and that they should have proved themselves worthy of the responsibility of membership on this board by a record of steadfastness and service to the Covenant.  For this reason it has been found better to place people on the bodies of spiritual consultation who have had such experience in the Cause and whose record of service and steadfastness is well known and established beyond a doubt.
The second requisite for membership on these spiritual boards is that the members should be able to work together and to co-operate in service.  That is to say, for example, they should be
page 158
those who are able to attend the meetings of consultation, and who have time for the performance of their spiritual duties as members of the meeting of consultation.
Several months ago a board of spiritual consultation was organized in the Washington assembly, in America, according to the following procedure:  A general meeting of the entire assembly was held at which a committee of five was appointed to make a selection of nine candidates for the assembly of spiritual consultation.  This committee of five met several times and, after much prayer and consultation, they selected nine people.  Four of these were of their own number.  Then the general assembly met, and the result of the work of the committee was made known.  The general assembly then unanimously elected these nine candidates.  It was found much better to select the candidates in a committee of five rather than in an open meeting with all the assembly present, for there were many matters and details to be minutely discussed, and this discussion might not have been feasible in a large gathering.  The meetings of this body of consultation were arranged at a time most generally convenient to all, when the friends were not hurried, but could remain as long as necessary for the pursuance of the spiritual work.
This Committee of Consultation is now the centre of administration and direction of the Bahá'í work in Washington.  Its first work was to appoint several working committees from among the people of the assembly who were not members of this central body.  From time to time, as conditions required it, these various committees met with the Committee of Consultation, by special appointment, to talk over and arrange the many activities of the Cause.  The Committee of Consultation recognizing the necessity of keeping all the friends actively engaged in serving the Cause, a special effort was made to interest the new and the young believers in the service of the Cause, in order that all might have the blessing of engaging actively in the pathway of the Covenant.
Charles Mason Remey.


XII:10, 8 September 1921
page 163
A week in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's home
1-8 September 1920.
The four pilgrims who made this glorious journey together were:  Mabel Paine, Sylvia Paine, Cora Grey and Genevieve Coy.
Genevieve L. Coy
"We have beheld the King in His Beauty; we have seen the land that is very far off."
__________
1 September 1920.
Our party of four American pilgrims had left Cairo on the evening of 31 August.  Three of the Egyptian Bahá'ís had come to the train to bid us farewell, and to give us messages to take to Haifa.  One of the group was an Armenian, who brought a basket of fruit for the Master.  Another was Mírzá Tawfíq, a young man of twenty-one or -two years of age, who is a student in the college in Beirut.  He interpreted for us often during our five days in Cairo, and also served as a most pleasant and helpful guide in some of our trips about the city.  The third person to bid us God-speed was Muhammad-Taqí Isfahání, in whose home we had spent some of our happiest hours in Cairo.  He speaks no English, but he gave us many sweet thoughts, through Mírzá Tawfíq's interpretation, and his smile was a benediction.  We loved him so much that we could not have borne parting from him had it not been that the goal of our journey was Haifa and the Master!  His parting gift to us was a tray of delicious pastry, and a lovely bouquet of roses.  Through all the next day's ride the flowers kept fresh, and on the day after that there were two or three buds that were fresh enough to be given to the Master, when Mírzá Muhammad Taqí's message of love was told him.  The Master wore them in his girdle all the rest of that day, and said that he always was happy when he thought of the loving heart of the Bahá'í who had given us the flowers.
When we woke on the morning of September first, the train was running through the desert country of southern Palestine.  For mile after mile the rolling sand dunes stretched into the distance.  Long lines of camels were passed; and occasionally acres of date palms, loaded with green dates, showed where a little moisture was held in the sand below the dry surface.  For hours we looked out of the window, watching, with an intense fascination, those long miles of desert.  Some one in our party said that she could quite understand why the children of Israel murmured in the wilderness, if that was the kind of country that they had to travel through!  We wondered whether Joseph and Mary, and the infant Jesus, had travelled so hard a road when they went down into Egypt.  But later, in Haifa, we were told that the tradition of the country says that they went to the port at the foot of Mt. Carmel, and from there continued their journey to Egypt by boat.
During the middle of the day, the train passed from the desert into the pasture land.  That is as different from
page 164
our green American meadows as one can imagine.  The pastures are brown and dry, and we wondered how the many herds of goats and sheep that we saw could find enough food to keep them alive.  We saw almost no cows, and in Haifa we found that it is very difficult to obtain milk; we did not see any butter while we were in Palestine.  Instead of butter, a white, salty cheese made from goat's milk is served.
In the afternoon we rode through the beautiful valley near Jaffa, with its thousands and thousands of fruit trees.  The fields have to be irrigated, but when that is done they "blossom abundantly", and the trees are loaded with oranges and lemons, which were green at that season of the year.  A little farther north is the valley of Sharon, and we tried to remember some of the beautiful words of the Old Testament with regard to that valley.  "The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose.  It shall blossom abundantly even with joy and singing; the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God."
The last part of the journey was very beautiful.  The train ran close to the edge of the seashore, and we saw the sun drop down through fleecy clouds and sink in the blue waters of the Mediterranean.  On the right a low range of hills rose,-rocky, and sparsely covered with vegetation.  Beyond them appeared line after line of hills, until, far in the distance, high blue mountains towered in to the sky.  We thought that they must be the Lebanons, and we wondered whether we should soon see the valley of 'Akká.  After a time the lowest range of hills rose so close that all the others were blotted out.  Cora suggested that perhaps the termination of this range was Mt. Carmel, and so it proved to be, for suddenly we rounded a point of land, and Haifa appeared to the east, with Mt. Carmel above.
Haifa lies on a narrow plain at the foot of the mountain, but there are buildings scattered part way up the slope.  A long white road traverses the length of the hill, and reaches the top near its western extremity.  I looked for the Tomb of the Báb, but I am not sure whether I saw it then.  The train runs through a considerable part of the town, before reaching the station, and our eyes were very eager in their search for the various places of which we had heard so much.  Suddenly I remembered that we should now be able to see 'Akká across the bay, and hurrying to the other side of the car, I looked out-and across the water I glimpsed the city of the Lord, the "door of hope".  We were so happy to be so near our journey's end, we were so full of expectation, that it seemed as if the train would never reach the station.  But at last we did pull up in front of it!  Cora went out to look for a porter, and I was ready to pass baggage out of the window to her.  But almost immediately a hand was reached in to shake mine, and we were welcomed by a young man, whom we later learned was Ruhí Effendi, one of the Master's grandsons.  Soon a familiar figure appeared in the car, Fugeta, whom we had last seen in New York.  He helped pass out bundles, and soon we were all on the platform with our numerous parcels and bags beside us.  We shook hands with several young men, Bahá'ís from the Master's household, and then we four American pilgrims were in the auto, with the driver, Ruhí Effendi, and some of our baggage.  Sa'íd Effendi, who had just arrived from Alexandria, Fugeta, and the other friends waited for the car to return for them.
The car ran through several streets, going steadily upwards,-and I was too happy and too far from ordinary speech to be able to say a word.  Suddenly we turned a corner, and after going less than a hundred yards the car stopped.
page 165
I recognized the Pilgrim House, from the picture of it in The Light of the World.3  On the other side of the road was the wall of the Master's garden, and rising above it, the little room, like a watch-tower, in which the Master often stays.
During our ride from the station, Ruhí Effendi told us that the Master was staying on the mountain for a few days, to rest from the many demands made on his time when he is in his house in the town.  We would not see him until the next day.  Perhaps we were disappointed for a moment, but here one knows that all that the Master does is wisely done.  And next morning we were sure that it was well that we should have time to rest, and drink in the exquisite peace of the place, before meeting him.
At the door of the Pilgrim House we were met by two Americans, Mrs Hoagg and Malcolm McGillavrey.  Malcolm had been in Haifa a week, but Mrs Hoagg bad been there since early in the summer.  She acted as hostess for the Pilgrim House; she showed us to our rooms,-one for Cora and me, another for Mabel and Sylvia.  Simple, clean, and filled with a faint fragrance as of incense, is our place of rest, the place the Master has provided for those who come from the West.  Every hour I wonder more at the love and kindness which has so provided for our comfort!  Whenever we sit down to a meal, I think, "This is the meal the Master has given us!"  The material food has come now, but the spiritual food had reached us in America!
Fugeta cares for the house; he gets the breakfast; he serves the lunch, the food for which is brought over from the Master's house; he washes the dishes, he cleans the lamps, he is always busy in serving us.  In the evening he helps wait on table, at dinner in the Master's house.  The other boy who serves at dinner is Khusraw, who came from Burma when he was very young, to serve the Master.
After our arrival at the Pilgrim House we sat on the porch for a while.  The night was beautiful,-a full moon, and yet the stars were very bright.  At about half past seven, Mrs Hoagg took us over to the Master's house to meet the ladies of the household.  We entered a gate that is covered with a luxuriant growth of vines, and walked under an arbour to the entrance of the house.  It was hard to believe that we were really there!  We had seen pictures of the house often and it was so very like the pictures!  (That is true of everything here.  The pictures we have seen have been very good, I think, for one recognizes places and people immediately.)
We went up a rather long, broad flight of steps, turned to the left, and were in a high-ceilinged room of moderate size.  There were many chairs and divans against the wall and at the end of the room was a big wicker chair which one knew at once was the Master's.  Immediately the ladies came in they greeted us with the Greatest Name, they inquired about our health, our journey, about the believers in America.  Ruhí Effendi translated for those who did not speak English.  There were present the Holy Mother, the Greatest Holy Leaf, two of the daughters, Tubá Khánum and Rúhá Khánum; two or three young girls, granddaughters of the Master, and Fu'ád, the adorable four-year-old grandson, whose picture I had seen in Mr Latimer's notebook.
The Holy Mother spoke about Bahá'u'lláh's commands about education.  The two daughters talked with us about the friends in America.  Little Fu'ád ran in and out on a very sturdy pair of legs.  I cannot remember much of what was said.  We knew that we were very welcome.  We knew that we were at home as never before!  I could not but try to realize that these were the women who had been for years prisoners in 'Akká, who had undergone unspeakable hard-
page 166
ships, these women with smiling faces who welcomed us so cordially.
After a time, how long I cannot tell,-someone came and announced dinner.  The ladies said "good night", for they do not come to the table where the men pilgrims are.  We were taken out into a big, big room, which had a long table down the centre.  Many men came filing in and seated themselves.  There were probably twenty or thirty at the table.  Later we learned that five religions, and six or seven nationalities were represented.  Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Zoroastrians, Jews-were met in love and unity at the table of our Master.  Egyptian, Persian, Arab, Burmese, Japanese, American, Pársí, Turk,-and perhaps other nationalities were infinitely happy because they had found the joy that passeth understanding, because they were the guests of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  One does not remember words here, but the atmosphere of joy and peace is unforgettable.
As we were leaving the house, Ruhí Effendi, who had just come down from the mountain, brought word that the Master would either come down, or send for us the next day.
At the Pilgrim House we sat out on the porch in the moonlight and talked until almost ten o'clock, and then went to our rooms to pass our first night in the Holy Land!  I slept peacefully, and the night was all the more beautiful because I woke several times for a few minutes of happy realization that we were at last in Haifa,-in the "land of heart's desire!"
__________
2 September 1920.
To waken in the Pilgrim House in Haifa is a very, very happy experience!  From our west windows we could catch a glimpse of the Tomb of the Báb, and how eagerly we looked up at it, knowing that there the Master was dwelling; there was the memorial to the wonderful young herald of our Faith, the Supreme Báb.
Breakfast in the Pilgrim House comes at seven o'clock.  It is a simple, friendly meal.  The food consisted of tea, toast, poached eggs, honey and cheese.  And the lovely companionship of the friends!  There were the seven of us who slept in the House, and Sa'íd Effendi and Mírzá Lutfu'lláh always came in and had breakfast with us.  Mírzá Lutfu'lláh came down from the mountain each morning, bringing handfuls of jasmine blossoms from the garden of the Tomb, and these he strewed on the table.  They were a lovely reminder of the spiritual fragrance of that spot!
After breakfast on that morning I was sitting in our room praying.  Cora was writing at the table, the door into the living-room was open and the various sounds of the household drifted in to us.  I was having a very happy time reading some of the prayers in the little prayer-book, and also in praying for the friends who were not there with us.  I found myself bathed in a wonderful atmosphere of love and peace.  It was like nothing I had ever experienced!  It was not supernatural, in the sense of seeming queer or strange.  It was simply an all-pervading peace and calm that seemed to fill my whole heart and spirit.  I seemed to be at one with all the beauty and joy and light in the universe.  Thus, I think, some ray of love from the Master's thought prepared me for meeting him that day.
At lunch Ruhí Effendi brought word that we were to go up to the Tomb at about four in the afternoon, to see the Master!  After lunch we all went and rested for an hour and a half.  That is part of the day's programme always.  At three o'clock came tea, another invariable occurrence.
As the hour drew near when we were to go up the "Mountain of the Lord", to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá, I remembered one evening we had spent with
page 167
Juliet Thompson not long before we had left New York.  She had said with deep earnestness, "When you are in the Master's presence do not be self-conscious, if you can help it.  Do not be afraid.  There is nothing to fear.  He is all love and kindness.  Pray, pray, all the way on your journey, that your hearts may be freed from all self-consciousness.  Go to him freely, gladly!"
I had tried to remember that, I had prayed for purity of heart that I might learn the lessons the Master will teach those who are ready to learn.  And yet as we rode up the steep road toward the Tomb, there was a strange mixture of love and dread and longing in my heart.  The way seemed very long!  And yet it was very beautiful.  We saw the valley of 'Akká, with the river Kishon winding through it down to the sea.  Across the bay, 'Akká shone brightly in the afternoon sunlight,-that "White Spot", which so many, many pilgrims have sought because the Glory of God had lived there.
Finally we turned off from the main road, and the carriage drove down a steep incline toward the Músáfir Khánih,-the Persian Hospice for men.  There we alighted and Mrs Hoagg led us along a wide path, which is bordered with cypress trees on one side and with fig trees on the other.  We passed the house of the care-taker, with the little room on top where the Master sometimes sleeps when He is on the mountain, and walked around to the front of the Tomb.


XII:11, 27 September 1921
page 179
A week in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's home (continued)
Genevieve L. Coy
In front of the tomb of the Báb we found perhaps thirty of the men pilgrims sitting.  One of the most majestic was a tall man, dressed in a long black robe,-one of the Bahá'í teachers from 'Ishqábád.  And with all his dignity, he had the most beautiful laughter-wrinkles around his eyes!  One soon realized the cause of the latter, for he smiled almost all the time!
We were shown to seats in front of the Tomb, on the edge of the beautiful garden of the terrace.  We were told that the Master would come soon.  During the last few days I had prayed so much for the ability to learn to serve the many children of the Father.  I had found myself trying to imagine what the Master's presence would be like,-and then had tried not to do that for fear I would be hindering my realization of his actual presence!  And so I had tried to go to him with only the thought of the love of God in my heart.
Suddenly all of the believers rose and faced the East.  Then, from around the corner of the Tomb came the Master with two of the young men walking a little behind him.  He came slowly toward us,-and said, "Welcome, welcome!" in English; and then, "Sit down, sit down!"  Sylvia sat next him; then Mabel Paine, myself, Cora, and Mrs Hoagg.  The other friends were beyond her, in two rows.
When the Master had walked toward us, it seemed to me that I had seen him come just that way at some previous time.  He seemed to be so beautifully familiar to me!  I suppose it must have seemed so because of the pictures I have seen of him, and the stories I have heard other pilgrims tell.  It was a moment that one would prolong if one could, that one would never forget!
The Master began to speak in Persian, and Ruhí Effendi translated into English.  He asked several questions; he talked of principles of living.  Sometimes he would be silent for several minutes,-with his eyes looking far, far away.  It is very difficult to remember much of what he said.  Indeed, it was almost difficult to listen!
I wished only to look and look at the beauty of his face!  For that was what impressed me first, the exquisite beauty of the Master.  It was like the most beautiful pictures we have of him, with life and colour added.  His is a face of living silver-the wonderful silver of hair and beard, and the blue of his eyes.  The side face is majestic and sweet and loving.  It was that which we saw most of the time.  The full face is more dig-
page 180
nified ; to me it seemed more awe-inspiring.  And yet, when he smiled, it was most exquisitely friendly, and human!
But he looked very, very tired.  And one of the secretaries had said in the morning that he looked more rested than when he had gone up to the Tomb a few days before.  It hurt poignantly that any face of such beauty should be so weary.  We had brought letters from friends in America to give to him, but when we saw the weariness of his face, we could not bear to add at all to the burdens he has to carry.
And yet the weariness was not, I think, a weariness of spirit.  I cannot tell why I felt that way, partly because he can reach, as no one else can, the infinite sources of spiritual strength.
I had no desire to speak to the Master; there was nothing that I could say.  I do not know what happened in my mind and heart.  There was no shock, no surprise, no sadness, no thought of my own faulty past.  But I came to understand that for one who has been long in his presence, there can be no desire except to serve him; that one's life would be happy only as one pleased him; that one would be sad only as one grieved him.  I felt then that I had begun to learn,-that the will to serve was becoming greater, as I had prayed that it might.  Having seen the Master but once, I could make no promise to myself that that longing would carry me through and beyond all my selfish habits of the past.  But I knew that to be in his presence would mean that I must love him, that I must do his will.
After a time, perhaps half an hour, some English visitors came; the Master begged to be excused; we rose and watched him until he disappeared from sight.  Afterward we walked about the garden at the front of the Tomb.  We saw the big reservoir for rain-water, built into the terrace, which supplies water for the garden and for many of the people of the neighbourhood.  Mírzá Lutfu'lláh brought us figs from one of the trees in the garden.  We looked across the beautiful blue waters of the bay, to 'Akká, shining in the distance.  We caught a suggestion of luxuriant growth of trees, and were told that it marked the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh.  The sun sank behind the mountain, and finally Mrs Hoagg said it was time for us to be going down but that first we might see the interior of the Tomb.
The care-taker opened a door at the south-west corner of the Tomb, and spread a piece of matting in front of it.  Mrs Hoagg went with us to show us the custom used in entering the Tomb.  We removed our shoes, and then the caretaker poured rose-water on our hands, from a little glass cruet.  We followed Mrs Hoagg into the first room.  It was perhaps fifteen feet square, and the floor was covered with a beautiful dark Persian carpet.  There was no furniture of any kind.  Directly in line with the outer door was a second door that led into an inner room.  That was also covered with beautiful rugs.  Standing on the floor were exquisite glass vases with candles burning in them.  They were in groups, perhaps of three, and they gave
page 181
the impression of flowers of living flame.  I think there must have been other objects, a few, in the room.  But the whole impression was one of exquisite beauty, simplicity and peace.  The inner room was raised several inches above the outer, and the raised threshold was covered with an embroidered cloth.
Mrs Hoagg walked slowly up to the threshold, knelt there a moment in prayer and then came back to a corner of the room.  Cora followed her, and then came my turn.  I had heard of the custom of prostrating oneself at the threshold of the Tomb, and I had wondered whether it would not seem stilted and formal.  But it did not in the least!  Perhaps it was the dignity and majesty of the Tomb, perhaps it was because we had been with the Master so recently.  I was filled with a feeling of humility, with a longing to be "evanescent at His threshold", and the kneeling in prayer seemed the most natural thing in the world!  After that moment at the threshold, I walked to the back of the room while Sylvia and Mabel in turn went forward.  We knelt in prayer a long time.  I cannot guess what was in the hearts of the others, but my own was filled with a great longing to lose my old selfish self, and to acquire the unselfishness of service.  It was a wonderful time.  I thought of that "radiant youth called the Báb", who had given everything,-friends, family, life itself, to prepare the way of the Lord.  I thought of the Master and the years of imprisonment and hardship that he had spent in the service of the Blessed Beauty.  For the first time, since coming to Haifa, I was almost ready to weep, not from sorrow, but from the sense of the greatness of the power of God.
No thought of death entered my mind while I was there.  It was not a place of mourning!  When I thought of the Báb, it was to be happy that one so pure of heart had lived and served.  The only grief was for my own faults and failures; and the future, with the hope of service, was much more vivid than the past!
Finally Mrs Hoagg, Cora and I had left the Tomb.  Mabel and Sylvia had not yet come out.  We were about to put on our shoes, when suddenly the Master came around the corner!  He smiled at us, and took up the cruet of rose-water.  He held it out toward us, and I realized in a few moments that he wished to pour some on our hands.  But I did not dream of going into the Tomb again, and so I did not realize what he meant!  So he poured some on his own hands, put some on his face, and again held out the rose-water, giving us a glorious smile as he did so.  That time we understood that he was waiting to anoint our hands,-and we gladly held them out for the fragrant drops.  Mrs Hoagg whispered, "We will go in again,"-and just then the men believers came in a long line from the front of the Tomb.  The Master anointed the hands of each, and they passed into the Tomb.  Each knelt at the inner threshold a moment, until all had risen, and stood in a circle about
page 182
the room.  Then the Master spoke to Ruhí Effendi, who began to chant a long prayer, one of the Prayers of Visitation.  His chanting was the sweetest, the most melodious of any I have ever heard.  After the prayer the believers knelt at the threshold, and then passed quietly out.  We four Americans were the last to leave, and as soon as we had left the Tomb, Mrs Hoagg came to say that the Master was waiting to say good-bye to us.  He stood at the north east corner of the Tomb, and as we passed he shook hands with each of us, adding a caress for Sylvia.  We turned and watched him as he walked back to the Tomb, waiting for the last glimpse!  Then we walked down the mountain in the gathering dusk, and we were very happy.  On the way down Mírzá Lutfu'lláh told us interesting stories of the spread of the Cause in Persia, of the self-sacrifice and patience of the believers in trying to bring others to see the Light of this day.
Of the Master's talk on that first afternoon I can remember the following:  He said that we were very welcome, and inquired whether we were well.  Then almost immediately he asked about Mr Vail.  Mrs Paine said, "He sends his love and longing.  He wishes to do the Master's will."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Mr Vail is a good man, a sincere man.  He is very illumined."
Cora Gray:  "It is through his teaching that we are here."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "You must be very grateful to him.  He has been the cause of your life.  He has educated you.  He has no aim save to serve the Kingdom.
"Some people are ready for education.  They are like the fertile ground.  Some have not capacity, they are like the barren or salty ground.  His Holiness Christ has told a story of the seed that fell on stony ground and so it could not grow.  Other seeds fell in the shallow earth, and they soon withered away.  But some fell on the good fertile earth, and grew and produced fruit.  So it is with my words.  Some fall on hearts that have no capacity; they do not take effect at all.  Those people do not understand.  Others hear and seem to understand, but they forget my words and do not live in accordance with them.  But others have great capacity; they
page 183
hear my words; they understand; they live accordingly.
"Have you seen Jinábí Fádil in America?"
Cora Gray:  "Yes, twice, just before we left New York."
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "He is a very pure-hearted man.  He is a real Bahá'í.  He is confirmed in service.  He who is confirmed is confirmed in all things.  Of the Persians who have gone to America only two have been fully confirmed Bahá'ís-his honour, 'Abu'l-Fadl, and his honour, Fádil.  They are both very good."
Then the Master told the story of Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl, and the English ladies who insisted on seeing him!  Finally, when they had knocked very persistently and continuously, Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fadl became tired of hearing it, so he went to the door, and said, "'Abu'l-Fadl is not here."  Up to this point in the story, the Master had been speaking in Persian or Arabic, and Ruhí Effendi had been interpreting, but when the Master came to this part, he spoke in English, very distinctly, and then repeated it, "'Abu'l-Fadl is not here!" and then he smiled the most adorable smile!
When we first saw the Master, he asked whether we had had any troubles or difficulties on the way.  Cora replied that if we had had any, we had now forgotten all of them.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "There is a Persian poet who says that when one has attained to the goal of one's journey, the end of one's search, he forgets all that has happened on the way."
Cora said that the friends in Alexandria and Cairo had been so kind to us, and had helped us so much.
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "That is the duty of any Bahá'í.  He is greater who serves most.  That is the way to progress.  Some flowers have colour and no fragrance.  Some have both fragrance and colour; some have neither.  So it is with the hearts of men."
__________
3 September 1920.
On 3 September we did not see the Master at all, for he was still up on Mt. Carmel.  I was very, very happy, with a calm peace.  During the morning I wrote in my diary.  In the afternoon we had tea with the ladies at the Master's house.  Some one told Mrs Paine to sit in the big wicker chair at the end of the room, and she was happy to sit in the Master's chair.  I talked to Tubá Khánum for a time, mostly about education.  Her daughter, Thurayyá, is to go to Cairo, to the Protestant School for Girls this year, and Tubá Khánum was saying how much they disliked to have to send their children away from home.  But the schools in Haifa are not advanced enough for study beyond the age of fourteen or fifteen.  She said, "We like to have our children at home in the evening in order that we may give them some spiritual teaching ourselves."  I could faintly imagine the loss to those children from separation from the lovely daughters of the Master!  Tubá Khánum said that the previous year Thurayyá had been in a girl's school in Beirut.  She had been eager to go, for
page 186
evidently life is a very restricted affair for a girl in Haifa!  But this fall Thurayyá was not quite so eager to go to Cairo.  Perhaps she had begun to realize how different her home in the Master's household is from the ordinary places of living!
We told the ladies that we hoped some of their children would come to America to study.  But of course they think that a very long way from home to send them.  Shoghi Effendi is now in England, just ready to enter Oxford, and Rúhangíz, his sister, is to enter some college for girls there.
Tubá Khánum, and, on another day, Rúhá Khánum, spoke of their hope of the founding of a Bahá'í School on Mt. Carmel.  They are so sweetly appreciative and kind; they act as though the person to whom they are talking had all beautiful characteristics,-and one longs to arise to meet that faith with deeds!  Tubá Khánum made me feel that way, when in speaking of a future Bahá'í school on Mt. Carmel, she said, "When such a school is founded I hope you may come and teach in it."  What could be more wonderful!  But one would have to "live the life" perfectly in order to be worthy to teach in such a school.
After a time Mrs Paine told me to come over to sit in the wicker chair.  That brought me near dear Rúhá Khánum and the Holy Mother.  They talked to me about education.  The Holy Mother said that when I was teaching my classes I could show forth Bahá'í love and kindness, even though I could not directly give the Bahá'í teachings.  Besides, she said, there were many of the Bahá'í teachings that I could mention in class, even though I did not label them "Bahá'í".
The Holy Mother is very, very sweet.  She is quiet, calm, giving one the impression that no disturbance ever ruffles the evenness of her life.  Her voice is low, and yet assured.  There is a "sweet reasonableness" in it that seems to say, "Why be impatient?  All will be well in God's good time!"  She makes me think of the verse in the Hidden Words, "Be contented with what we have ordained for thy sake.  This is for thy good if thou art content with it."  The Holy Mother is content with His will.  She was not in the group of prisoners who were exiled to 'Akká in 1868, but came from Persia with her brother.  The journey was very hard.  Much of the time she had to sleep at night in the same room with several men, and therefore she had to wear a veil at night, as well as in the daytime.  Imagine the faith and courage of a young woman, who would come all that journey of months, through wild countries, in order that she might enter the Prison City, and marry-a Prisoner!  When she reached 'Akká, the Bahá'ís had been removed from the barracks, and were living in a small house, one we saw when we visited 'Akká.  One can only faintly imagine the warmth of the greeting she must have received when she came to be the wife of the beloved Greatest Branch!  At that time the Master must have been twenty-seven or
page 187
eight years old.  We know that even then he was the comfort and joy of the whole Bahá'í colony!
One of the ladies apologized because they had not been over to the Pilgrim House to call on us, for they had been unusually busy.  There is much to be done in that big household, and in addition, two or three of the children had been quite ill.  I think it was Rúhá Khánum who was saying that they wanted to see more of us, and she continued, "One should go and call on one's guests-and yet we do not!"  Then she smiled and said, "But you are not our guests! you are members of our family!"  What sweeter hospitality could one desire!
I have mentioned the big wicker chair at the end of the room.  However I never saw the Master sit in it!  Whenever we saw him in that room, he sat in a corner of one of the divans,-always in the same place.
I think it was this same afternoon that the ladies took us out and showed us the garden.  The whole plot of ground upon which the house stands is from one-third to one-half an acre in size, and all of it is a beautifully cared-for garden, except for the parts where buildings actually stand.  (There is nothing comparable in it to our American lawns of grass!)
The garden has all been made since 1911 or 1912, by one faithful Bahá'í who loves to serve the Master in that way.  I think many of the seeds, cuttings, etc., have been sent by Bahá'ís from various parts of the world.  The result of the gardener's work is a lovely place.  Flowers, fruits and vegetables of many varieties grow there.  We saw peaches, lemons and pomegranates hanging on the trees.  The pomegranates were just ripening and one of the ladies picked some for us to taste.  There were two varieties, a sweet kind, that every one likes, and a rather sour kind which reminded us of our red currants.  Cora and I liked its sharp tartness, but most of the others did not care for it.  The pomegranates are a beautiful fruit, with their dozens and dozens of bright red drops, crowded together within the reddish-yellow rind.
The Greatest Holy Leaf walked about several of the garden paths, looking at all the plants and trees.  Some one told us that that was the first time in months that she had been in the garden!  Apparently the ladies seldom go into the garden, because there are always men about who do not belong to the immediate family!  And the Master says it is still not the time for the Bahá'í women in Haifa to go contrary to the custom of the country with regard to veiling when strange men are about.  The ladies are longing for the time to come when they can lay aside the warm black veil!
To return to the garden:  Several of the paths have trellises over them, with vines which make them very lovely.  Above the main gateway there is a big bougainvillaea plant which was covered with many blossoms when we were there.  Beneath one of the arbours, against the house, and just below the Master's window, was a garden-bench, where the friends often sat and talked.  Cora and I went over there and sat for an hour two or three times, drinking in the beauty and peace.  I had heard much of the Master's garden, and I was so happy to see it with my own eyes!
At dinner that Friday evening the friends were very merry.  There was a constant chatter, laughter and teasing!  Mírzá Badí' (who is interpreter for the English governor) sat next [to] Mrs Hoagg, and they carried on a gay conversation.  He has the nicest face, and his eyes twinkle with fun all the time
We had watermelon for dessert.  When the Master is not there to give the signal for leaving the table, it is the custom for all to watch until every one has finished eating; then all rise at once.  But that evening, Malcolm and Mírzá
page 188
Lutfu'lláh lingered over their watermelon longer than the others!-I think Mrs Hoagg and Mírzá Badí' were responsible for flashing a signal down the table, that we should rise and leave them there!  So some twenty-three people rose and looked on while Malcolm and Mírzá Lutfu'lláh finished their watermelon, while everyone laughed at them!  We were all like the simplest children who had played a prank on two playmates!
All day Friday we had been wondering when the Master would come down from the mountain.  We were eager for him to come because we knew that we should see more of him then.  And yet, remembering how tired he had looked, I could not help but wish he might stay longer in the quiet peace near the Tomb, in the hope that he might become more rested.
All that day I had been very happy and content not to see him, but as the evening came on I began to long to see his beautiful face again!  And so I could not help but be happy when we heard that he was coming down the next morning-that Isfandíyár was to go up for him sometime between six and seven!  And so I went to sleep in our quiet room in the Pilgrim House, rejoicing that on the morrow we should see him again.
__________
4 September 1920.
On Saturday morning, Cora and I rose in the darkness of 4:30 a.m., dressed, and by 5:15 we were on our way up the mountain toward the Tomb of the Báb.  That early hour was a bit too late, for even then we found the climb warm, and the sun rose before we had reached the Tomb.  We stopped to watch its glorious arising from behind the Lebanon hills.  There were enough clouds to make a really beautiful sunrise.  The valley of 'Akká was radiant, and the river winding through it gleamed silver!  It looked, in its outward physical seeming, "a door of hope!"  We continued up the hillside to the Tomb.  As we passed the caretaker's house, he saw us, and by a gesture, asked whether we wished to enter his house.  Perhaps he thought we had come up to see the Master, whom we knew was either in the house or at the Tomb.  But we motioned toward the Tomb.  He smiled, and preceding us, opened the west door into the room where we had been on Thursday.  Then he quietly departed.
The candles were not lighted and the central room was not quite so beautiful on that account.  But a soft light filtered in through the doors,-and the exquisite peace filled our hearts.  We stayed for perhaps an hour, in meditation and prayer.


XII:12, 16 October 1921
page 195
A week in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's home (continued)
Genevieve L. Coy
It must have been after seven when we went out into the garden.  We walked about a bit, and then Ruhí Effendi and Mírzá Lutfu'lláh came out to wish us good-morning.  On the previous evening we had told Ruhí Effendi that we were going up to the Tomb early in the morning.  But when he saw us there, he said, "You really came!  I didn't think you would!  Americans never get up early!"  At which we laughed much!  Ruhí Effendi's English is very good, but sometimes a phrase or some slang expression is used which he does not understand.  He looks courteously questioning, half surprised, and waits for some one to explain!
The two young men talked to us for a few minutes, and then asked whether we would like to see the circle of cypress trees where Bahá'u'lláh used to sit.  Of course we wanted to see them, and so Mírzá Lutfu'lláh went with us, while Ruhí Effendi went to the caretaker's house.  I wondered whether the Master had already gone down the mountain, and decided that he probably had, because it was after seven.
Mírzá Lutfu'lláh led us up a path, onto a terrace back of the Tomb, and there we saw the circle of cypress trees.  There are ten of them, planted quite close together so that their boughs interlace, forming an almost solid wall.  They are on a bit of ground which is raised about three feet from the surrounding field, and is held up by a stone wall.  We went up into the circle of ground between the trees.  Above our heads was a small circle of blue sky.  The ground was brown with needles from the trees.  I thought of the Blessed Beauty, and was glad that at one time in His storm-tossed life He had been able to withdraw to that quiet green spot.  But we had been there only a few minutes, when Ruhí Effendi came toward us, calling that the Master wished to see us!  And we went on eager feet, following Ruhí Effendi to 'Abbás Qulí's house.4
Cora was ahead of me, and she told me afterward that when she entered the room where the Master was sitting on a divan, she was not sure what to do!  He bade her welcome, but still she stood in the doorway!  Then he rose, held out his hands and motioned her to a chair.  She went and sat down.  Just then I came in, and the Master motioned me to a chair beside Cora.  I cannot remember whether he shook hands with us or not.  (Usually he shook hands with us when we left him, but not when we came into his presence.)  Mírzá Lutfu'lláh and Ruhí Effendi sat by the door, and a tall Persian or Turkish man sat near us.
The room we were in had a north window, which looked out over the Bay of 'Akká.  Like all windows in the eastern houses, it had several iron bars across it to keep out intruders.  The house is high on the hillside and there was a wonderful view across the bay.  The Master sat on a divan in front of the window, and occasionally arranged some letters and other small objects, which
page 196
he finally put into a small handbag.  As he did this, he talked to us.  He said, "This location here by the Tomb is very beautiful."
We said, "Yes, we enjoy it greatly."
Then he talked to us a little about the Báb.  He said, "After the Báb was martyred, his body was kept in Persia for several years.  It was never kept in the same place for more than a few years.  Not many of the friends, even, knew where it was at any one time.  After a long time it was brought here to Haifa, and placed in the Tomb on Mt. Carmel."
Cora asked how long ago it was brought here.  I think the Master's reply was, about twenty-four or five years ago.
Cora asked Mírzá Lutfu'lláh to say that we hoped that the Master was feeling more rested.
He replied, No, he was not rested, but that did not matter.  And his expression implied that physical weariness was a matter of small concern.
'Abbás Qulí brought to the Master a little tray with a teapot full of what looked like tea.  The Master poured out some and drank it, explaining that it was a kind of herb drink.  Then 'Abbás Qulí brought us tea in the lovely little Persian glasses.  Afterward he came in with a tray full of things to eat and placed it on a chair in front of us.  The Master told us to eat.  "He says you must eat your breakfast here," Mírzá Lutfu'lláh interpreted.  We did not really want to eat-when we could be looking at the Master-but at his command we ate a little.  The tray had on it ripe figs, ripe olives, honey, and slices of white bread,-and the latter were the only slices of white bread we saw on our whole journey!  I ate one or two figs, and a few olives.  After a time the tray was passed to the tall Oriental next us.  Thus we had breakfast with the Master at the Tomb of the Báb!  As we ate he was silent, looking out of the window upon the sea of 'Akká.  His beautiful profile was outlined against the window; his gaze seemed to dwell on distant 'Akká,-and I could not but think of those long years of imprisonment that he had spent in barred 'Akká.  Some slight vision of all he had suffered swept over me.  I knew then, beyond all question, that I had found him as the Master.  My spirit knelt in humility at his feet.
After a while he gave the bag he had been arranging to Ruhí Effendi, and said that he was ready to go down the mountain.  We followed him from the house to where Isfandíyár was waiting with the carriage.  We had expected to walk down the mountain, but after the Master had ascended to the middle seat, he motioned to us to get in the back seat.  And so Cora and I rode down Mt. Carmel with the Lord of our hearts.  No word was said, but we were very happy.  At the gate of his house he alighted, and, saluting us with uplifted hand, he left us and entered his home!
At the Pilgrim House we found Ruhí Effendi and Mírzá Lutfu'lláh, who had walked down and were there before us.  Then we ate of the breakfast that Fugeta had prepared!
__________
5 September 1920.
This morning all of us had finished breakfast at about 7:45 and were sitting at the table talking.  No, Mírzá Muhammad Sa'íd had not finished; he had just come in, and was waiting for Fugeta to bring him some tea.  Suddenly Mrs Hoagg said, "The Master is coming!"  She had seen him pass the window!  We all rose, just as he entered the door.  He came in like a ray of light and life.  He sat down at the end of the table, bade us be seated; told Fugeta to give Sa'íd Effendi his breakfast.  But Sa'íd Effendi did not eat!  He drank the tea Fugeta brought, because, as he said later-that was not so hard to do, but he could not eat toast and eggs while the Master was speaking!  We quite
page 197
understood his feeling, as we remembered our experience at the Tomb yesterday morning!
The Master said that he hoped we were well and very happy.  Then he asked again if we were well.
Mrs Paine said, "We are all very well except Sylvia, who was a little ill in the night, but that is not serious."
'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "I hope she will soon be well."
Sylvia smiled and nodded and the Master said, "That will soon pass away and you will be well again."  Then he continued, "Your food and rooms are very simple here, but your purpose in coming here makes them seem good to you.  When a man is good, all things about him are good.  When a man is bad, all things about him are bad.  It is necessary that man be very good."
After a pause the Master said, "You have come here, and every day you try to improve.  You try to improve more each day.  You must become pure in heart.  Then when you return to America, you must carry spirituality and inspiration with you.  You must be like Jacob, who inhaled the fragrance of the garment of Joseph from a distance:  But more than that, you must be one who carries the garment, who spreads the fragrances of the Spirit."
Turning to Mrs Hoagg, the Master told her to take us to church this morning.  Then he continued by saying, "The purpose of going to the church should be to worship.  Turn your hearts to God and worship Him.  One can worship God anywhere, in a church, in a mosque, in all places.  But here I hope that you will go to the church."
Then he rose, smiled on us, said, "Good-bye," and walked from the room, and down the steps.  We went to the door, and watched him till he disappeared behind the wall.
I think that neither Cora nor myself had said a word all the time he was with us.  I do not know how she felt, but for me, there simply was nothing that I could say.  To be in his presence, to look on the beauty of his face, to listen to his voice, was all I wished to do.  I do not know how or why, but in his presence, all life is lifted higher; it acquires freshness and beauty.
Mírzá Lutfu'lláh translated the Master's words in this talk.
Following the Master's request, we attended the little Episcopal chapel which is near the Pilgrim House.  After our return from there we called on Rúhá Khánum for almost an hour, and such a happy time as we had!  Her house is just next the Master's, so that she can easily help entertain the Master's guests, and yet look after her own household.  She and her two sisters talked with us often, giving us wonderful stories about the Cause and instructing us in many ways.  That day she told us about the Master's life during the Great War; how he gave food, money and encouragement to all those who sought his help, no matter what their race or religion.  The people of the household lived on the simplest food in order that they might have food to share with the hundreds who came begging for bread.  She told us, too, how few letters and papers came from the friends all over the world, and how they longed for news of the welfare of the Bahá'ís in the different countries.
That afternoon after tea, we went over to the Master's house and talked with the ladies for a short time.  Then word came that the carriage was ready to take us up the mountain, for the regular Sunday afternoon meeting.  Tubá Khánum, and one of her sons, Suhayl, went with us.  In front of the Tomb many of the friends were gathered; more than forty, I think.  For a time we talked with the people near us.  Then Mírzá Lutfu'lláh brought out the large guest book, and asked us to write in it our names, addresses, the date of our arrival in Haifa, and some word of greeting.  Cora wrote,
page 198
"The valley of Achor shall be unto them for a door of hope."  Mrs Paine wrote, "Beautiful beyond compare is Mount Carmel, the joy of the whole earth."  And I added the sentence from the Hidden Words which I love so much, "Lift up thy heart with delight."  On that mountain one learns so much about why one should "lift up one's heart with delight".
In a short time the Master came from around the eastern corner of the Tomb, followed by little Fu'ád.  The Master was radiantly beautiful.  He wore a dove-coloured overcoat or wrap, for the wind was cool on the mountain-side.  Fu'ád was dressed in a stiffly starched white dress, and made a staunch little body-guard for the Master.  (Some one told us that one night Fu'ád went up to the Master after supper and said, "You go to bed now and rest.  I will take my gun and lie across the threshold.  If any thieves come, I will scare them away!")
The Master gave us the talk about Elijah, which Mírzá Lutfu'lláh took down in Persian, and later translated into English, so that we might have a copy of it.  At the Tomb that day Mírzá 'Azízu'lláh interpreted for us.
As always the beauty of the Master's face, its power and majesty, held my attention so that it was difficult to listen to what he said.  After the talk, the door at the west end of the Tomb was opened, and we all filed past the Master, who anointed our hands with rose-water.  Never again will we be able to inhale that special rose fragrance, without the memory of that western entrance and the Master at the door, coming to our minds!
The candles were burning in the glass vases; there was utter stillness except when the Tablet was being chanted; and, as on the previous afternoon, my heart was won by the peace and glory of the place.  While the tall, black-robed Bahá'í from 'Ishqábád chanted the prayer of Visitation in Persian, the Master stood in the doorway, and the room was filled with a divine radiance of Love.  At the threshold of that Tomb one may lay all burdens down.  Life becomes simple and straight because one feels surrounded with Divine Love.
After the meeting in the Tomb the carriage took us back down to the Pilgrim House, and then returned to bring the Master.  Cora and I watched for his return for a long time, while the quick twilight faded into darkness.  Soon above us, on the mountain, there shone out the light in front of the Tomb, which is lighted every night unless there is very brilliant moonlight.  At last, the carriage drew up before the door of the Master's house, and we caught a glimpse of white as he swept down from the high seat, and we heard the murmur of his greeting to the men who were sitting in front of the gate, waiting for the call to go in to dinner.  So do all the pilgrims linger near his house, hoping that they may but glimpse his face as he passes by them.
That night at dinner, the Master said, "I hope the health of the friends is good.  Today you went to visit the shrine (the Tomb of the Báb).  Are you happy?"  His smile, his care for our happiness and comfort, would have made any one happy, and our smiles of reply must have been bright enough to show him a little of how happy we were!
For dessert that night we had grapes, although on every other night we had watermelon.  While we were eating the grapes, he said, "His Holiness Christ once was eating grapes.  He said, 'I will not eat of the fruit of the vine again until I eat it with you in the Kingdom.'  But the grape of the Kingdom is other than these grapes.  In the Kingdom there is no bread like this.  Now also, I say to you all, we will eat together of the divine bounties, God willing, in the Kingdom, that is, divine food, heavenly food.  Its taste is everlasting.  Its sustenance is everlasting.  God willing, there we all together will eat of that heavenly food."
page 199
6 September 1920.
On Sunday afternoon the Master said to us, "Tomorrow, I am sending you to 'Akká!" and his smile was light itself.
We left the Pilgrim House at about 8:00 a.m., Díyá'íyyih Khánum, Mehrangíz, Riáz, of the Master's household and Isfandíyár, called for us.  Mrs Hoagg and we four people added five more to the group.  With joy in our hearts we began the two hours' drive to 'Akká.  Down through the narrow streets we rode, and then eastward past the railway station.  We passed through a grove of tall palm trees, and down to the shore.  At last! that beautiful "way of the sea", toward the Holy City, 'Akká!  How often we had read of the journey along the white sand, where the horses' hoofs play in and out of the water, as they follow the hard-packed sand at the sea's very edge.  We watched the waves rush up and then back, sweeping with them tiny sea animals.  We passed trains of camels and donkeys, all on that universal highway "not made with hands".
We thought of all the happy, longing pilgrims who have gone to 'Akká by that same "way".  Doubly happy were we that our Master was living safely in his own house in Haifa, and not as a prisoner in 'Akká!
Always ahead of us was a glimpse of 'Akká, which shone more clearly as our three horses trotted along the shore.  To the East, the hills of Lebanon were purple in the distance.
As we neared 'Akká, Mrs Hoagg pointed out the walls, the gate, the cemetery where some of the Bahá'ís of that group of exiles are buried.  Finally Díyá'íyyih Khánum pointed out the tower of the barracks.
Outside the gate we halted, for one of our horses had lost a shoe.  The blacksmith was sitting under a tree, with his tools about him.  But at Isfandíyár's request he came and put on the needed shoe.  While we waited, we looked at the high wall of the city, which showed how much a prison city it had been.  The walls were high and thick; the gate was small, and beyond the outer wall was a second inner wall.  A long train of camels passed us, going into the city, and one tiny donkey, heavily loaded, came out!  People in oriental garb drifted by us, and glanced at us curiously, but not in unfriendly fashion.  I remembered the showers of stones from small boys with which the Bahá'í pilgrims to 'Akká used to be greeted, and I meditated on the changes that time brings!
We entered the gate, passed between the two walls for a distance, and on into the town.  Isfandíyár stopped the horses at the foot of a long flight of steps.  It was the way to the barracks.  At the head of the stairway a soldier met us, and conducted us about, for the barracks are now occupied by a few soldiers.  This man looked like an Arab, but he was under British orders, I think.  He led us through many winding passages, showing us several places in which we had no special interest.  But finally he led the way to the tower on the west side of the court, the tower where Bahá'u'lláh was imprisoned for two long years.  Díyá'íyyih Khánum told us of the various places associated with Bahá'í history.  She showed us the room where Bahá'u'lláh had lived, the window from which He had looked out upon the plain of 'Akká.  She showed us the rooms where the immediate family had lived, and the roof from which the Purest Branch fell.  The rooms were small, rude; a sad exchange for the royal palaces of Persia, as far as physical comfort was concerned.  Yet joy was there, because they might suffer hardship in the service of God.  To have been there in the days of Bahá'u'lláh-for that privilege one might have been able to bear much!
Afterwards we crossed the large court,
page 203
and saw the pool, or reservoir, in the centre, from which the exiles obtained the slimy water which was their only drink during the first twenty-four hours of their imprisonment!  On the south side of the court we saw the rooms where most of the exiles were imprisoned.  They are like rather wide and long corridors.  At present they are quite well lighted, but Mrs Hoagg said that the British have changed them a great deal, and have let in much more light.  When she first saw them, they were very dark and gloomy.  And in the days of the Turkish rule, they must have been very dirty, unwholesome and dark.  Here, amid all manner of privations and sufferings, the band of exiles praised God for having led them to believe in His greatest and newest Manifestation.  As we walked about the barracks, Díyá'íyyih Khánum told us stories of those early days, making them live again, for our instruction.
After we left the barracks, a few moments' drive brought us to another house where the Bahá'ís had been imprisoned.  Bahá'í families live in it now, and they welcomed us with sweet kindness.  We saw the little room where Bahá'u'lláh lived for seven years.  In an adjoining house, which now seems to be a part of the first house, the holy family lived for many years more.  There Bahá'u'lláh's room has been left as it was when He used it.  The windows overlook the sea; to the south there is a view of distant Haifa; to the north, the plain of 'Akká.  I think Bahá'u'lláh practically never left the house while they lived there.  We hear of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's caring for the physical needs of the friends, as well as it could be done under the very difficult conditions; engaging in trade that he might have money with which to equip a bath; in all ways constantly serving his father!
It was to the smaller of these two houses that the wife of 'Abdu'l-Bahá came from Persia.  I am not sure, but I think that some of the daughters were born there.
In the family of Bahá'ís who care for these two houses, we met a woman.  Sakínih Sultán, whose husband, at the age of twenty, was a martyr in Persia!  When we were there she was probably over fifty years of age.  A few years ago her daughter died leaving a baby boy, Labíb, for whom she is now caring.
Whenever one is with these Bahá'ís who have been intimately associated with Bahá'u'lláh or 'Abdu'l-Bahá, one marvels at the spirit of service and self-sacrifice they show.  We longed to acquire in its fullness that attitude of evanescent service.
It was after eleven when we left the city of 'Akká behind us, and drove toward the Ridván.  We went north of the city wall, toward the east.  By strange track-like roads we drove, past gardens walled with cactus plants.  It was perhaps a mile and a half or two miles before we came to the Garden,-the Ridván.  Just before we reached it we turned to the south, and the road followed a little stream.  We passed a water-wheel, turned by a small donkey, and later we saw the water he had pumped, as it fell from a fountain in the garden.
At the gate we left the carriage, and Isfandíyár unharnessed the horses that they might have a well-earned rest.
How I had longed to see the Ridván at 'Akká!  That spot between "the two rivers", that garden on an island!  It is a place of beauty and peace.  Tall palm trees, pomegranate trees loaded with ripe fruit, beautiful vines bearing many-coloured blossoms,-all add to the beauty of the Ridván.  From the fountain, streams of water run to the north, south, east and west, watering the plants.
But the place of most wonderful asso-
page 204
ciations is the spot on the side of the stream, where the two great mulberry trees form the "tent not made with hands", "over land and water".  There, in the later days, the Blessed Beauty used to sit beneath the trees.  It is a place of rest and peace.  The troublous world seems very far away.  Love and peace are in the wind, in the soft rustling of leaves, and the murmur of the water.
Our lunch was spread on a rug beneath one of the mulberry trees.  We ate of the Persian foods from the Master's household, of the fruits from the Ridván.  We were utterly content to sit in that heavenly place and watch Ríaz, and another small boy who had come with us from 'Akká, sail boats down the tiny stream from the fountain.
After lunch we all rested for an hour or more, after which we had tea.  It was too sweet a place to leave, but the hours were passing, and the supreme goal of our day was still ahead of us, the visit to the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh.  And so we left the Ridván, with the prayer in our hearts that we might come again to that lovely garden of our Lord.
We drove to the north, across the rolling 'Akká plain, till the Bahjí appeared before us.  Here Bahá'u'lláh lived after He left 'Akká, still technically a prisoner, but permitted to live among trees and flowers, instead of being shut in by the dark prison walls.  At the Bahjí we turned westward, and soon rounded the corner of a long, low building, where the caretaker of the Tomb lives, Siyyid 'Abu'l-Qásim.  There we alighted, and Díyá'íyyih Khánum indicated a small gate into the garden.  Slowly, with wonder in our hearts, we followed the path through the garden to the door of the Tomb.  In the little outer room we removed our shoes.  A short flight of steps brought us into the large room of the Tomb.
We found ourselves in a large room, with a garden in the centre.  At the west end were several windows, and floods of light poured down upon us from the glass windows in the roof.  In the north west corner of the room, a curtained door led into the Tomb itself.
Díyá'íyyih Khánum drew aside the curtain but the door was closed.  We knelt in the space before the door, and Díyá'íyyih Khánum chanted the prayer of Visitation.  I tried to remember the words of the Tablet of Bahá'u'lláh, "Cause me to drink of the cup of evanescence, clothe me in its mantle and immerse me in its sea", but my mind seemed almost a blank.  I remember the promise that the prayer one prays in all sincerity at the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh shall be answered.  With my whole heart I prayed for "evanescence" at His Threshold, and for the power to serve His Cause.  Then I prayed for various people I knew, who were in need of a vision of the greatness of God's love.  And then for the Bahá'í friends in America. ...
And how I longed to enter that closed door, into the Tomb itself!  I remembered that _____ and _____ had been inside and that they had been somewhat surprised at being led in, for they knew that people were not always permitted to enter there.  I realized how very far short I fell of the purity of heart of that party of pilgrims.  I knew that the Master gives to each one what he most needs.  And so it was as though the Master said to me, "You have not yet learned enough to appreciate the atmosphere of that inner room.  Live the life; serve the Cause; achieve purity of heart.  Then perhaps if you return here, the rewards of the pure in heart will be yours!"  And with my whole mind and spirit I pledged myself to the accomplishment of that task.


XII:13, 4 November 1921
page 211
A week in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's Home (continued)
Genevieve L. Coy
We were in prayer at the threshold of the Holy Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh for a long time.  Finally Díyá'íyyih Khánum went out toward the outer door.  We followed her, ready to leave that place of light.  But she returned, went to the front of the room, and opened the curtained door.  I do not know why she did it; perhaps Mrs Hoagg reminded her that it was our visit to the Tomb.  But I am sure that in some way, the Master's will entered into it.  When I fully accepted his will for me as my guide, "acquiesced", then my desire was granted.
The heavy curtains at some of the windows were pulled back, and the setting sun poured a radiant glory of light into the room.  "His resting-place shall be glorious"-with torrents of physical light, as well as with spiritual glory.  I do not know how long we knelt there.  Time's passing ceased for us.  My very breathing was a dedication of myself to our glorious leader, Bahá'u'lláh.
Our drive home was a silent one.  I think we were all rather weary, physically, from our long day.  But the spiritual significance of all we had seen filled us with so much to think about, that we had no desire for speech.
The sun set in the blue waters of the Mediterranean, in a majesty of colour.  Darkness came down and shut us in on that crescent sea-shore.  The horses sped along through the darkness, toward the distant lights of Haifa.  We were eager to be again in the Master's presence.
We reached Haifa a short time before the dinner-hour, weary, but happy.  At dinner that evening the Master said, "Did you have a happy day in 'Akká?"  And we replied, "Oh, yes, it is a day we shall always remember!"
He replied, "You must always remember it!  It must be like images cut in tablets of stone!"
That evening as he bade us goodnight, after dinner, he said in his dear, measured English, "Go-and rest!  Go-and rest!"
By the Master's love for us, we know something of the love of Bahá'u'lláh.  And from the love of Bahá'u'lláh we know of the Love of the Infinite Father, whose voice comes to us through the Supreme Pen:  "I knew My Love in thee, therefore I created thee; upon thee I laid My Image, and to thee revealed My Beauty.  ... I loved thy creation, therefore I created thee.  Wherefore love Me that I may acknowledge thee and in the Spirit of Life confirm thee."
__________
8 September.
On the morning of 8 September, I went alone to the Tomb of the Báb at sunrise.  Cora had not been sleeping well, and so she did not feel like rising at 4:30 that day.  But I woke, dressed and was almost to the Tomb before the sun rose.  When his full splendour began to loom above the horizon, I sat down on a stone in the field below the Músáfir Khánih (Pilgrim's House), and watched the lord of day east his first light across the valley of 'Akká.
After a time I went on up to the Tomb,
page 212
passing along the path with its beautiful cypress trees.  At the Tomb I entered the room on the east side, and stayed there in prayer and meditation for almost an hour.  The tall Bahá'í from 'Ishqábád came in and knelt in prayer for some time, and then chanted.  After he had gone, a younger man whom I did not know came in and chanted very softly and sweetly.  He went out and I was alone for some time.  The folds of the long veil I wore fell about my face and shoulders, and seemed to shut me in with God.  His radiant Presence was very near.
I tried to fill my heart with the exquisite beauty and peace of that heavenly place, for I knew that was my last morning on the mountain.  I knew that many and many would be the times that I would long to be kneeling at that Threshold.
Finally I knew that it was time to be going down the mountain.  Just as I was leaving the Tomb, Mírzá Lutfu'lláh came in.  I went out into the garden, and walked about a bit, drinking in the beauty of flowers, hills, water and sky.  Soon Mírzá Lutfu'lláh came out and bade me good-morning.  Then he suggested that we gather jasmine blossoms to take down to the Pilgrim House.  So we pulled off dozens of the fragrant flowers, and filled our pockets and handkerchiefs with them.  Later we strewed them on the breakfast table.  Mírzá Lutfu'lláh said that he used to fill a basket full of blossoms, stripping the bushes each morning.  He took the basket to the Master, who scattered them everywhere he went.
About 7:00 a.m. we started down the mountain.  Mírzá Lutfu'lláh had a stone-bruise on his heel, and was wearing a loose slipper and carrying a cane; but never once did I hear him complain about it.  Instead he talked of how the Master works, with no thought of physical fatigue.  He works all day long, interviewing callers, etc.  He goes to bed possibly by 9:00 or 9:30, but often he is up again at midnight, chanting and praying.  Then he may correct Tablets for a while, and then sleep two or three hours more.  And at perhaps 6:00 a.m. he rises for the day's Work!  Apparently he averages not more than four to six hours of sleep a night!  So his whole life is given to the service of mankind.
Mírzá Lutfu'lláh said, "The real Bahá'í activity is not to stay here in the light of the Master's love.  It is to go out into the world and spread his message of service.  Be happy that you are going out to work for him."
But at another time he said, "Pray for us who live here in the Master's household.  We have many temptations to guard against.  We must never become impatient or give way to any depression.  Not long ago when the Master was speaking to us, he said, 'You must be an example to all who come here.  In you they must see what a real Bahá'í should be.'  So we need your prayers that we may live up to that work."
We had thought of the great joy of being a member of the Master's family, but then we began to realize that only those of great unselfishness may be his helpers there in Haifa.
On that beautiful morning we entered the Pilgrim House before breakfast was quite ready, and strewed the jasmine blossoms over the table.
The Master came in after breakfast, and stayed only a few minutes.  He smiled at us all, and we were very happy to be near him.  He asked especially about Mrs George's health.  He said a few words to her, smiled at all of us, and then rose and left us.  We all went to the door and watched him as he disappeared through our gate.
After breakfast we went over into the Master's garden, and waited for an opportunity to talk with him for a few moments.  After a while Rúhá Khánum called Mabel and Sylvia in to see him.  While they were gone we stood talking with Mrs Hoagg and some of the young men.  I shall not forget the
page 213
look on Mrs Hoagg's face when she spoke of the Master's longing for unity among the friends.  His only happiness is to know of the increase of unity among the believers, and of their spreading the Cause.  His face always becomes sad if he hears of any contention or lack of harmony.  "If people in America could see the Master, could realize how he works, they would never do anything to sadden him," she said.  When one is in the Master's presence it seems utterly impossible that one should ever do anything that would sadden, or make any heavier the load of work he carries!  "In the light of his holy presence, all desire dies save the desire to be like him."
Later in the morning Cora and I were called in to see the Master.  Rúhá Khánum translated for us.  We gave the Master the letters we had brought from American friends.  We asked him to bless the ringstones and rosaries we had bought at Mírzá 'Ináyatu'-lláh's shop.  He took them in his hands, said a few words that must have been a prayer, kissed them, and handed them back to us.  And so we brought back to America Bahá'í ringstones, made doubly precious by his touch of love.
The Master said that he was sorry not to have seen us more, but that he had been very busy while we were there.  "But," he continued, "it is not the length of time that one spends here that is important.  Some people stay a short time, and then go and do great service.  Other people are here a long time, and they learn nothing.  There is some wood that is very dry:  it catches fire quickly and burns well.  There is other wood that is so wet that it will not burn even though you should try for a whole day.  There is no result but smoke.  It will not blaze, it will not keep any one warm; it will not even cook anything!"  As he said the latter he smiled.  But when Rúhá Khánum translated it, Cora laughed out loud.  That seemed to delight the Master, for he laughed very heartily with the most unaffected enjoyment.
Cora asked how one should teach the Bahá'í Movement to our United States southerners, among whom race-prejudice is so strong.  He said, "Go slowly at first.  Be kind and courageous and patient.  Live the Bahá'í life among these people.  Do not mind if they oppose you.  Their prejudice is so strong.  It is like a religion.  But when they become Bahá'ís they will be very good and sincere ones.  But at first teach the principles and be kind to them.  The rest will follow in time."
After this we went and talked with some of the ladies of the household.  Soon the Master called for Mabel and Sylvia, and gave Sylvia a Bahá'í name, Badí'a, which means "something new and wonderful".  We were not present when he gave her the name, but Mabel said that he walked up and down the room, radiating power and love.
When Sylvia came back with her new name, the Holy Mother brought out a bag of candy, in honour of Sylvia's name-day.  The candy was white with a little chocolate centre.  Bringing it out in Sylvia's honour was one o£ the sweetest, kindest acts of simple thoughtfulness that we saw in Haifa.  Needless to say, Sylvia Badí'a Paine was a very happy girl that day.
It was on that morning that the Greatest Holy Leaf showed us the pictures of Bahá'u'lláh and the Báb.  We had already seen pictures of the Báb, and so I think most of our attention was centred on the photograph of Bahá'u'lláh.  The pictured face was of dignity, power and majesty.  But the feeling of the power, the glory, the supreme Reality of Bahá'u'lláh which came to me in Haifa, did not come from seeing His photograph.  That Reality is living and vibrant in the unselfish lives of the friends; it makes radiant the atmosphere of the Tomb on Mt. Carmel and the Tomb at Bahjí; it shines from the Master's eyes.
page 214
Later in the morning Cora and I were sitting on a bench in the garden, just below the window of the Master's writing-room.  Occasionally his voice floated down to us, as he dictated or talked with a caller.  Once he came out of the house, and walked to the corner of the garden, where some masonry was being done.  Soon he returned, and his voice was again heard from his room.  Such brief glimpses made us very happy, for he radiates such life that one is lifted toward supreme joy just to know he is near.  In his Essence he is so detached from earthly things, he is so different from all human beings one has ever seen, he is Love incarnate.
Mírzá 'Azízu'lláh came and talked with us for a while, and told us stories about the European Bahá'ís whom he had visited not long ago.  Other friends passed and stopped for a word.  It was a perfect morning and we were sorry when the lunch-hour called us back to the Pilgrim House.
After dinner that evening Rúhá Khánum took us to receive the Master's farewell.  I can remember very little of what he said.  He told us that his love and thoughts and prayers would go with us.  He sent his love and greetings to all the Bahá'ís in America.
I knew that I should not see him again, but I felt no sadness or grief.  His love was too great:  it poured in a radiant flood about me, and held me suspended in a priceless moment, when time stood still, and I lived in eternity.  His eyes were glorious stars of light and love.  No words can express their beauty.
He shook hands with us in parting.  When he said good-bye to Sylvia, he smiled down at her and said, "Sylvia!-Badí'a Khánum!  Miss Badí'a!"-and his voice was filled with the most affectionate and sweet laughter!
Thus we left the Master's house, that wonderful home, of which he has said, "My home is the home of peace.  My home is the home of joy and delight.  My home is the home of laughter and exultation.  Whoever enters through the portals of this home must go out with gladsome heart."
Next morning, before daybreak, we ate our last meal in the Pilgrim House and said farewell to our happy housemates there.  Sa'íd Effendi, Mírzá Lutfu'lláh, Ruhí Effendi, and faithful Isfandíyár and his horses, took us to the train which left at 6:00 a.m.  We had a half-hour's talk with the young men before the train pulled out-but of that time I remember clearly one thing.  Mírzá Lutfu'lláh turned to us as he said good-bye, and added, "Be good!  Be good!"  Then he smiled and said, "You know what I mean!"  And no one who had seen the members of the Master's household for a week could fail to know that "to be good" is love and service and the spreading of the ideals that the Master teaches.
In the Hidden Words Bahá'u'lláh has said, "If thou run with all immensity and speed through the space of heaven, thou shalt find no rest save in obedience to Our Command and in devotion before Our Face."  In Haifa one learns, as never before, the meaning of that sentence.  The will to obey, a longing for devotion, are born in one's heart and spirit.
Since we left the Master's home, the days and weeks and months fly past, and are filled with many duties; many calls to help in the work of the world.  But the beauty of the Master's face is with us.  "In the light of His Holy Presence all desires die save the desire to be like Him."
Alláh-u-Abhá!
__________
"But I shall go down from this airy space, this swift white peace, this stinging exultation.
And time shall close about me, and my soul stir to the rhythm of the daily round.
Yet, having known, life will not press so close, and always I shall feel time ravel thin about me;
For once I stood
In the white, windy presence of eternity."
From The Most Sacred Mountain, by Eunice Tietiens.


XII:10, 8 September 1921
page 168
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá regarding spelling of Sacred Name
To the maid-servant of God, Miss Jean Masson (Chicago)-Unto her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!-Care of his honour, Mr Roy Wilhelm (New York):
HE IS GOD!
O thou harbinger of the Kingdom!
Thy letter has been received.  Its contents indicate that thou art occupied in writing a book in answer to the one who has written against the Truth.  Thou asked as to how ye should spell in English the blessed name of His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh and also Mashreq'Ul-Azkar.  Ye should spell them thus Baha 'Ullah and Mashreq 'Ul-Azkar.5
It is my hope that in writing this book thou wilt be confirmed.  The language, however, must be very lenient and mild.  Thou shouldst write it with the utmost politeness.  Thou shouldst not look at the expressions of that hostile person, because he was a man full of prejudice and very impolite.  Anybody who is endowed with a slight sense of fairness understands that what this person has written is based on the utmost self-interestedness and enmity.  This very fact is a sufficient proof showing his fallacy.
Unto thee be the Glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh Khán S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 29 April 1921.
__________
Haifa, Palestine,
17 May 1921.
Miss Jean Masson,
My dear Bahá'í sister,
I am sorry your letter to the Master was kept so long unanswered.  It was due partly to the sickness of the Beloved and partly to his thousand-sided occupation.  However, I am glad at last there offered some opportunity when your letter was presented and a Tablet was revealed.
page 169
As to the spelling of the two names, Baha 'Ullah and Mashreq 'Ul-Azkar, the standard is given by the Master in this same Tablet of yours.  The explanation is that Bahá'u'lláh is composed of two words, Bahá and Alláh (Glory and God).  Baha U'llah means the Glory of God.  Now the U signifies of.  This vowel, when introduced between these two words, joins them together, but in pronunciation the A of Allah is dropped and replaced by the same U-vowel.  We put an apostrophe between the two words in order to show that a letter, i.e., A, is dropped and we capitalize the U because it replaces the A of Alláh which is in capital.
Mashreq 'Ul-Azkar is also composed of two words, Mashreq and El-Azkar (Mashreq-dawning place; El-the; Azkar-mentions or prayers or communes).  Again U signifies of.  When we put these two words together the E of El is dropped in pronunciation and so that U-vowel takes its place.  We put an apostrophe to show that the letter E is dropped and we capitalize the U-vowel because it replaces the E of El which is in capital.
I had the pleasure of reading your pamphlet on the Mashreq 'Ul-Azkar.  I admired the style of your writing and the tactfulness you have exhibited in it.  It is sanctioned by the Master.  You will kindly send us many copies for distribution.  It is written in a way that will not arouse jealousy in the outside readers.
Will you kindly remember me to our revered sisters, Mrs True, Arna True, Dr Appel and Mrs Houser?  Also to our dear brother, Dr Baghdádí.
With Bahá'í love and greeting, I remain,
Your brother in the Covenant of God,
Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur.


XII:10, 8 September 1921
page 170
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Victoria Bedikian
To the revered maid-servant of God, Victoria (Bedikian), Montclair, New Jersey-Unto her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
Today, at the Threshold of His Holiness, Bahá'u'lláh, there is nobody more favoured than thee, because thou art busy in the service of the orphans and in the education of the destitute, helpless children.  Thou hast no desire but to please God.
Verily, verily, this service is directly rendered to His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh Himself, because these children are His dear children.  This is why His Holiness Christ (may my soul be sacrificed to Him) says, that from all parts of the world people will hasten to enter the Kingdom, while the sons of the Kingdom go out of it; and again He says, that children are the residents of the Kingdom of God.
May thou be a hundred thousand times applauded for this service thou art rendering!
Unto thee be the Glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 9 December 1920.


XII:11, 27 September 1921
page 177
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Today the magnetic power that attracts heavenly blessings is teaching the Cause of God.  Whoever arises to perform this service the armies of the angels will grant him victory.  The three conditions of teaching the Cause of God are the science of sociability, purity of deeds and sweetness of speech.  I hope each one of you may become confirmed with these three attributes.
Therefore one must be wholly cleansed from desire and self and passion, be abstracted (drawn apart) from the world of nature, become embodied light and visualized spirit and then be engaged in teaching the Cause of God.  Then the fire of the love of God will flame so high as to attract the hearts of all mankind.
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Tablet to friends in Denver, 1914.  From Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.


XII:11, 27 September 1921
page 188
'Abdu'l-Bahá's answer to the question:  "Who was Jesus?"
"Jesus was a Manifestation of God.  Everything of him pertained to God.  To know him was to know God.  To have him was to have God.  To obey him was to obey God.  He was the source of all divine virtues.  He was a vision of all divine qualities.  In this vision the light of the Sun of Reality was reflected to the world.  Through this mirror the Energy of God was transmitted to the world.  The whole disk of the Sun of Reality was reflected in him."
From notes of Mr Mountfort Mills during his visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.


XII:12, 16 October 1921
page 194
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"It is the time which His Holiness Christ calls the 'Days of Marriage'."
To his honour Mr Alwyn J. Baker, Berkeley, California-Unto him be greeting and praise!-Care of Mrs Kathryn Frankland.
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art seeking for Truth!
Your letter has been forwarded.  I have no opportunity to write a detailed answer, so I am obliged to be brief.
The point is, that the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is inclusive of all perfections and supplies all the needs of the world of humanity.-But this cannot be accomplished in a short time.  Time is needed.  This will gradually be realized.
When a divine farmer sows the seed, the crops cannot be immediately gathered in, but it is certain that the seed will develop into a harvest.  The seed which His Holiness Christ-May my soul be sacrificed for Him!-sowed, grew into a harvest within three hundred years.
We are now at the commencement of the shining forth of the Sun of Reality.  It is the time which His Holiness Christ, calls the "days of marriage".  No doubt the house is not in order, but the time will come when it will come under order.
They put some questions pertaining to wisdom and philosophy to his honour Paul.  He said that before he recognized Christ he knew everything; but after he came to know Christ, he forgot everything.  He was filled with Christ and so they should ask him about Christ, besides whom he was ignorant of everything whatsoever.
In the Tablets of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, there are many philosophic questions.  For example, the Tablet of Wisdom, but it has not yet been translated.6  It may be found that his honour Fádil-i-Mázindarán gave this Tablet to a Persian expert to translate into English.  In His Tablets He has encouraged and rather urged (the people) to study philosophy.  Therefore, in the religion of Bahá'u'lláh philosophy is highly esteemed.
As to life, however, it has had no beginning, nor will it have any end.  The eternal grace of God has always been the cause of life.  It has had no starting point and it will not approach any end.  But concerning the degrees through which the soul has gone, these degrees are spiritual.  Consider all the advancement of the word of humanity which is at present manifest and known.  This has been realized through the spirit.  The manifestation of the will of the Omnipotent, in the universe, means the manifestation of the divine laws and disciplines which are essential to the realities of beings, and in the world of the Kingdom they are ideals which in the appearance of the holy Manifestations (of God) are realized.
The fruits of the deeds of man, i.e., the harvest of the reward of man's conduct, is gathered in the heavenly realm.
But as to evolution, it is true of both the body and the spirit.  Consider how many sciences, arts, discoveries and achievements have come into existence since the days of Moses till the present time through the progress of the human soul in knowledge and perfections.  Similarly, how much the soul has evolved from the moral point of view.  From the material standpoint, you can see also how much civilization has progressed.
In short, I wrote the answer in brief.  No doubt you will understand realities in detail thereby.
Unto thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azíz'ulláh S. Bahádur, Mount Carmel, Palestine, 2 December 1920.


XII:12, 16 October 1921
page 194
Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"Two Assemblies in one city will not become the cause of spirituality."
To Mr Charles M. Hanson, Duluth, Minnesota-Unto him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who hast faith in God!
Thy letter has been forwarded.  Treat thy travelling companion in the utmost love, sincerity and faithfulness so that thou mayest attain to the realization of thine end.
Thou hast written that the Call of the Kingdom is in rapid progress in those regions.  The flood which is flowing and moving from the realm of Truth can, by no means, be checked and stopped by any unreal force.  Certainly the motion of a flood is rapid.
Thou halt also written that it is difficult for the friends to go from one side of the city to the other, and so in the other side of the city a second assembly may be formed.  Two assemblies in one city will not become the cause of spirituality.  Therefore ye should strive that the oneness of meeting may become the cause of promoting union, harmony and perfect spirituality.
Convey in my behalf great kindness to Mrs J. A. Bauers and say unto her, "Thou shouldst be very grateful to Charles Hanson, for he helped thee to attain to the source of eternal Life.  But as to the division of the Red Sea, this is a political question.  We are concerned with the affairs of the Kingdom.  You should also walk on the same path."
Forward this message to the dear maid-servant of God, Eva Mary Jahr, "Although thou art a young member, yet I pray to God to enable thee to grow great in His Kingdom."
Through the grace of God do I hope that the Bahá'í Assembly at Duluth may, day by day, become more and more luminous and that heavenly blessings envelop thee and the assembly.
Unto thee be Abhá Glory!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azíz'ulláh S. Bahádur, Mount Carmel, Palestine, 19 December 1920.


XII:12, 16 October 1921
page 201
Tablets from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Bahá'ís in America
Charles M. Hanson
To his honour, Mr Charles M. Hanson.
Duluth, Minnesota-Upon him be the Glory of God the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant.
The glad-tidings of the unity of the friends caused much happiness.  No tidings will give so much exhilaration as that of the union of the friends.  For unless the union of the Bahá'ís is established how can they become the cause of the oneness of humanity?  First, the Bahá'ís should be united with one another in the utmost love and oneness, and then they will be able to raise the banner of the oneness of mankind.
Therefore, I was much delighted with thy news.  My hope is that thou mayest travel to the cities of those regions, and spread the Teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'lláh!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azíz'ulláh S. Bahádur, Haifa, Palestine, 27 March 1920.
Annie L. Parmerton
To Mrs Annie L. Parmerton, Washington, D.C.-Unto her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!-Care of the favoured maid-servant of God, Mrs H. Emogene Hoagg-Unto her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
Thy letter has been received.  Praise be unto God, it indicates that through the presence of Jinábi Fádil a new book has been opened.  It is my hope that the friends may receive at every moment a new spirit and so arise to act as they should have to.
I was very glad to learn that after the death of Mr Parmerton thou hast moved forth according to the call of the Teaching Committee; that thou hast severed thyself from the earthly world and those who live thereupon; that thou hast turned thine attention to the Kingdom of Abhá; that thou hast made the whole of the globe of earth thy home, and thou hast been spreading the breaths (teachings).
Offer thanks unto God that thou hast been thus confirmed; that consequently thou hast become favoured by 'Abdu'l-Bahá; that thou art supplicating assistance and confirmation for the friends of God, and thou lovest all of them!  Be thou assured that thou wilt be confirmed.
I supplicate God's blessing upon thy revered sister and all thy family.
Unto thee be the Glory of Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azíz'ulláh S. Bahádur, Mount Carmel, Palestine, 8 December 1920.


XII:13, 4 November 1921
page 218
Recent Tablets referring to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár
To the maid-servant of God, Irene C. Holmes-Unto her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!-Care of Mr Roy C. Wilhelm.
HE IS THE MOST GLORIOUS!
O thou who art heavenly!
If, with the consultation of the Executive Board and its approval, thou shouldst polish the stone I laid in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár and engrave on it, its story, so that it may become the corner-stone of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, it would be permissible.  On the condition, however, that it would be with the approval of the Executive Board; because I have referred all the affairs of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár to the Convention.  I hope that through the bounties of God, Mr Roy Wilhelm, Mr Remey, Mr Latimer, Mrs Corinne True and thou, all will be confirmed in the service of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
Unto thee be Abhá Glory!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Ruhí M. Afnán, Haifa, Palestine, June 25, 1921.
__________
Through the revered maid-servant of God, Mrs Corinne True, Chicago-to _____-Unto be greeting and praise!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art a servant at the Threshold of God.
Thy letter has been received.  From its flowers of significance the fragrance of truthfulness and straightforwardness was perceived.  It is my hope that thou will remain in faith and in the Covenant firm and steadfast.
Thou hast touched upon the question
page 219
of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  The importance of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár cannot be confined within any measure or limit; because it is the first divine institution in that vast continent, and from this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár which is now in the process of construction, a hundred-thousand Mashriqu'l-Adhkárs will be born in the future.  Therefore, it is very important.  As its cost of construction, however, will amount to a huge sum of money, its construction cannot be accomplished in a short time.
Every meeting (in the Cause) whose formation is permitted and sanctioned by 'Abdu'l-Bahá is accepted and favoured by God, otherwise, it produces no result and bears no fruit, nay rather, it gives rise to the distraction of minds.  I have no difference with anybody.  I am busy in servitude to the Threshold of Bahá'u'lláh.  Everybody who agrees with me, I feel attached to him.
Eternal life is characteristic of the human soul.  The sacred souls are in the utmost harmony and joy with one another in the world of eternity. ...  Strive thou as far as thou art able in the Divine Mine so that thou mayst discover heavenly jewels.
... Thou hast asked about the third Tajallí, which is about sciences, arts and industries.  By these sciences and arts are meant those which are useful and are studied in Europe and America, such as geometry, chemistry, geography, all mathematics and other useful sciences.
In Persia, however, in that time such sciences had prevalence which were mere imaginations, but their names were great.  They had termed them Hikmat-i-Ishráqí (a system of old philosophies).  The people would busy themselves in the studying of these sciences and would take pains for thirty to forty years.  At the end they would realize that their studies consisted of mere superstition and pure nonsense.  Those helpless souls (students) would become disappointed and discouraged.
... I supplicate God to bestow upon thee great assistance and confirmation and to enable thee to enter the Kingdom of God; to be established in the school of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and to learn wisdom and servitude towards His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  This is the divine school, this is the enlightened school and this is the heavenly school.
Unto thee be greeting and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Azíz'ulláh S. Bahádur, Mount Carmel, Palestine, 12 December 1920.


XII:14, 23 November 1921
page 232
Recent cablegrams from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Cable to Roy Wilhelm, 8 November 1921.
"How is situation and health of friends?" (Signed) 'Abbás.
Mr Wilhelm cabled in reply, 9 November 1921:  "Chicago, Washington, Philadelphia agitating violation.  Centring Fernald, Dyer, Watson.  New York, Boston refused join, standing solidly constructive policy."
Cable to Roy Wilhelm, 12 November 1921.
"He who sits with leper catches leprosy.  He who is with Christ shuns Pharisees and abhors Judas Iscariots.  Certainly shun violators.  Inform Goodall, True and Parsons telegraphically." (Signed) 'Abbás.7
Second Cable to Roy Wilhelm, 12 November 1921.
"I implore health from divine bounty." (Signed) 'Abbás.


XII:14, 23 November 1921
page 232
Latest Tablet to Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí
To his honour Dr Díyá Effendi Baghdádí-Upon him be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
HE IS GOD!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant:
Your letter has been received.  You have written that some of the waverers had written to me letters and that I had written answers to them; that some have taken this as a proof that association with the waverers is permissible.  This is the essence of error!  For 'Abdu'l-Bahá corresponds with all the people, even with the enemies.  This emanates from his mercy and not for their merit.
One of the women of Chicago8 has written me a letter.  In the first sentence she asked, "Why do the friends associate with a person who is wicked?"  In the second sentence she asked, "Why should the blessed souls shun the wicked souls?"  In the first sentence she wrote this and in
page 234
the second she wrote that.  In short, an answer has been written and is enclosed in your letter.  Read this to the Spiritual Assembly-the House of Spirituality-then give it to her and know this as the standard.  Undoubtedly the unworthy souls must be shunned otherwise the morals will be entirely corrupted.
Upon thee be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Revealed 7 October 1921.  Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, Chicago, November 1921.


XII:14, 23 November 1921
page 233
Recent Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The maid-servant of God, Mrs Mary Hall, Chicago-Upon her be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!
HE IS GOD!
O thou dear maid-servant of God!
Thy letter was received and the contents became known.  I ask God to confer upon you new life.  Thou hadst asked some questions; that why the blessed and spiritual souls, who are firm and steadfast, shun the company of degenerate persons.  This is because, that just as the bodily diseases like consumption and cancer are contagious, likewise the spiritual diseases are also infectious.  If a consumptive should associate with a thousand safe and healthy persons, the safety and health of these thousand persons would not affect the consumptive and would not cure him of his consumption.  But when this consumptive associates with those thousand souls, in a short time the disease of consumption will infect a number of those healthy persons.  This is a clear and self-evident question.
Likewise, if a thousand magnanimous persons associate with a degraded one, the perfection of those souls will not affect this debased person.  On the contrary, this mean person will become the cause of their going astray.  Therefore His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh says in the Tablets:  "Soon will a foul odour be spread, shun it, so commandeth the Omniscient and the Wise.  That is, in that
page 234
city a stinking odour will soon be spread.  You should avoid it.  So are ye commanded by His Holiness the Knower and the Wise."  That foul odour is that of Violation.  Also in the Tablet of Advice He says:  "Now do not neglect your Sower, Protector and Educator; and do not choose and prefer others to Him, lest foul and poisonous winds should pass over you."
His Holiness Christ says that the owner of the garden does not leave the dried tree, but certainly cuts it and throws it into the fire, because the dried wood is worthy and deserving of fire.
Again His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh says:  "Then, O ye trees of the blessed garden of my bestowal, protect ye yourselves from the poison of the treacherous souls and the stinking winds, which are the association of the polytheist and the negligent ones.  So that the trees of existence, through the bounty of the Worshipped (God) be not deprived of the blessed breaths and breezes of love."
In the Persian Hidden Words He says:  "O my son!  The company of the wicked increaseth sorrow and the fellowship of the righteous removeth the rust of the mind."  And also He says:  "Beware O Son of Dust!  Walk not with the wicked and confederate not with him, for the companionship of the wicked changeth the light of Life into the fire of remorse."  This is the admonishment of His Holiness Christ and the advisements of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.
But your other questions are the proofs of this statement, and there is no need of answering.  I pray for thee that thou mayest reach to such a condition that it may become the cause of attaining greatest bestowals.  Read thou carefully thy first question.  Thou seest that it is this same desire-that is why the friends associate with a reproachable person, and do not expel him.
Upon thee be the Glory of the Most Glorious!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated 7 October 1921, Haifa, Palestine.


XII:14, 23 November 1921
page 235
"The candle of the Testament has illuminated all horizons in spite of the people of discord."
Tablet to one of the Persian Bahá'ís.
HE IS ABHÁ!
O thou who art firm in the Covenant!
The radiance of servitude shining from the Candle of the Testament has illumined all horizons in spite of the people of discord; and the renown of the Grandeur of the Blessed Perfection hath caused such an outcry throughout the world that it hath made the limbs of all nations quiver.
All the religions of the world have the loud cry of "Woe unto us" on their lips, and the cry of "Woe to our Faith", which is raised by the ignorant, is heard in the East and West.  The Power of the Blessed Cause has such effulgence that it has become apparent to all peoples, and all the nations and creeds have acknowledged and confessed the greatness of the Cause of God.
Had it not been for the injuries inflicted by the party of conceit (the náqidín), the world of existence would have been in this day an exalted garden.  But the people of conceit, being heedless of this Cup of Wine mixed with Ka'fur (a fountain intended to be drunk by the true and firm believers), have imagined that they can upset the Standard of the Testament, and that they can disappoint the delivered nations.  They have poured forth seditious rumours on the lips and tongues of all people, and they have made calumniating statements, hoping by this means to darken the Light of the Sun of the Divine Covenant, and to mingle the contents of the Pre-Existent Cup of the Testament with the bitterness of Violation.
Far, far distant be it from them to do this!
Jesus Christ-May my soul be a sacrifice to Him!-had only a few followers at the time of His departure.  Then, after His departure, all the kings of the world, philosophers of all nations, learned men of all races and wise men of all creeds, arose to suppress and degrade His Cause; but, finally, all the standards hoisted by those numerous nations were upset, and the Banner of Jesus Christ was fluttering on the loftiest mountain.
Now, praise be to God! that hundreds of thousands of souls have assembled under the Standard of the Covenant through the assistance of the Blessed Perfection.  I declare by the Educator of the visible and invisible, it will be evidently witnessed that the descendants of the violators will think their descent as a disgrace, and will disown their fathers and forefathers, just as Akrama, the son of Abú-Jahl, kept clear of his father; and Khálid, the son of al-Walíd, left his father.
As these darkened souls (náqidín) have imagined that the Power of the Divine Testament is but a power of man, and that the Edifice of the Covenant is as one of the baseless foundations of the material world, they are plotting to destroy this Divine Edifice with all intrigues and machinations.
Praise be to God! that the power of Nero, the great Roman emperor, proved impotent to withstand the Cause of Christ; while these weak souls are plotting to resist the Power of the Covenant of God.  "Wherefore, take example from them, O ye who have eyes."
The final result of all the influence, insolence, deception, intrigue and machinations planned by the people of conceit (náqidín) will be this:  to cause the few drops of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's blood to be shed, and thus be delivered from this narrow and degraded world, to soar up to the Court of the Greatest Mercy in the Shadow of the Kingdom of Abhá!
O my God!  Let this draw nigh unto me and give me to drink from this cup
page 236
which is overflowing with Thine Ancient Choice Wine; cause me to taste of the sweetness of this manifest prosperity, and crown me with the diadem of this great Favour.  I yearn for this state!  I thirst after this Fountain of Life!  And "they who act unjustly shall know hereafter with what treatment they shall be treated."  They desire to cause my death, although the endurance of the material body, of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is a strongly fortified fortress for their protection, and every knowing man testifies of this.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated 1905


XII:14, 23 November 1921
page 228
Unity through firmness in the Covenant-the only path to Bahá'í unity
From Notes taken at 'Akká, 26 February 1899, by Miss Pearson.
...
page 236
"One thing I ask of you for your own good, and that you must do if you wish to gain the blessing.  It is this:  To stand firm in the faith, without any wavering.  Whatever troubles may come to you or to any of the believers, do not let your faith be affected by them in the slightest degree, but stand as firm as a rock.  Be like Mary Magdalene, whose faith was so strong that it was never shaken, even for a moment, when Christ was put to death; but with steadfast faith in him she went to his discouraged disciples and renewed and rekindled in their hearts the wavering light of their faith by reminding them of the promise their Lord had made to them of his constant presence, and showing them that it was really of little consequence whether he was with them in the body or not.  She so encouraged and strengthened them by her words that their faith was confirmed; they became strong as lions and went out teaching in all directions, and by the power of God working through them, the knowledge of God spread all over the earth.  Now in the eternal Kingdom their names shine as the most brilliant stars.  Even here on this earth their names are remembered with love and reverence by millions.  So the best thing I can desire of you is to stand firm in the faith, even if you hear of the most great troubles and sorrows-even if you were to hear that I had been killed or crucified, as Christ was 1,900 years ago, let not your faith be in any wise troubled or shaken.  Arise for the work of God and His Cause, and you shall see His mighty power working in you, and you will conquer all things; and remember, whether I am on earth or not, my presence will be with you always.  But work as if you were all but one soul and one spirit living in different bodies."


XII:14, 23 November 1921
page 237
"The subject of the Covenant is a very important one."
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Verily, the Lord hath manifested Himself in this new and wonderful age with the greatest bounty and mercy, which hath never been preceded and whereof the eye of existence hath never seen the like; and it is His Great Covenant and New Testament, as appointed by the trace of His Supreme Pen, through which, and according to clear ordinances and explicit statements, the matter was plainly shown and the branches (sons), twigs (relations), kinsmen and beloved were commanded to obey the "appointed Centre of the Covenant".  But the Covenant of God and His Testament is a bounty to the righteous and a curse to the wicked. (p. 438.)
Strive so that the odour of violation cease and all come under the protection of the Covenant.  (p. 150.)
From the Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
The subject of the Covenant is a very important one.  It is referred to in all the Holy Books; in the Hindu, in the Zoroastrian, and more clearly found in the Old and New Testament of the Gospels and of the Qur'án.
These Covenants referred to in the Holy Books, focalize in the great Covenant of the Bahá'í dispensation, namely, the Covenant witnessed by Bahá'u'lláh in His day.
How have the Covenants become manifest in the days of Bahá'u'lláh?
To illustrate this we will say that just as a certain tree, even before it bears its particular fruit, is known by its former fruit that it is an apple or a pear, or some other fruit, and when that special fruit appears on its branch, it witnesses thereto.  Likewise the Covenants taken in former ages were identified by the one established in the great day of Bahá'u'lláh.  Hence Bahá'u'lláh was the witness of the Covenants given in former ages by the Lord.  The Centre of these Covenants entered into by the people of former ages with the God of Might and Power and witnessed by Bahá'u'lláh is the beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Therefore all the former statements pertaining to the Covenant including the emphatic utterances of the blessed witness, refer to the Centre, namely 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  All references to the Testament or Covenant mean especially the Book of the Covenant.
In this His last book, the blessed Bahá'u'lláh has covenanted with his branches (Aghsán), twigs (Afnán), and the relatives, as well as all the Bahá'ís in the world, that they must turn to the One "Whom God has willed", that is the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
This is the meaning of the Mystery of God, according to the terminology of the One who has given the Mystery of God, or he whom God has willed; but who, according to himself, is known as 'Abdu'l-Bahá (the servant of God).
He whom God has willed is the fruit of the tree.  Hence Bahá'u'lláh is the trunk, the branches, the root, all except the fruit, which is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The colouring, the shape, the form, taste and all the attributes of the tree are in the fruit.
"Hence in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh the bounties of Bahá'u'lláh, the manifestation of His power, His words, have been spread throughout the world by this great soul.  The effects of His words have been realized from this great life.  This is the meaning of the statement of Jesus Christ-"I shall come in the glory of my Father!"
From Flowers from the Rose Garden of Acca, pp. 31-32.


XII:16, 31 December 1921
page 250
"I am with you always"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
I say unto you that anyone who will rise up in the Cause of God at this time shall be filled with the Spirit of God, and that He will send His hosts from heaven to help you and that nothing shall be impossible to you if you have faith.  And now I give you a commandment which shall be for a covenant between you and me-that ye have faith; that your faith be steadfast as a rock that no storms can move, that nothing can disturb, and that it endure through all things even to the end; even should ye hear that your Lord has been crucified, be not shaken in your faith; for I am with you always, whether living or dead, I am with you to the end.  As ye have faith so shall your powers and blessings be.  This is the standard-this is the standard-this is the standard.


XII:16, 31 December 1921
page 251
"Now is the separation, O longing ones!"
Words of Bahá'u'lláh.
Chanted in commemoration of the Ascension of His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
HE IS GOD!
The nightingale of separation (perching) on the branch of the horizon (of the word) is warbling (saying):  Verily, this is a separation, O longing ones!
The bird of fidelity is singing from the tree of eternity, saying:  Now is the separation, O longing ones!
The dove of parting is cooing from the Sadrat of separation, saying:  O longing ones, the separation has come!
Say:  Verily, the time of union is over and the separation has come through Divine decree; and this is a separation, O longing ones!
The tears are flowing from the eyes of the people of eternity from among the Supreme Concourse on account of this separation, O longing ones!
The breeze of joy has ceased to blow from the garden of Light on account of this separation, O longing ones!
By God, Verily, the faces of those that are occupying high balconies have turned pale on account of this separation, O longing ones!
The joy of life of everything between the heaven and the earth has changed on account of this separation, O longing ones!
The húrís tinged their eyes with tears of blood, when they heard the announcement of this separation, O longing ones!-and they will not adorn themselves with the robes of eternity when they hear the announcement of this separation, O longing ones!
Verily, this is a sorrow with which no sorrow in the kingdom of spirituality can be compared, for the breezes of separation have blown, O longing ones!


XII:16, 31 December 1921
page 251
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to early American Bahá'ís
Farewell Words to the First Party of American Pilgrims, 'Akká, 1898, From "An early pilgrimage".
'Abdu'l-Bahá turned suddenly to us, and raising his voice in a tone so poignant that it pierced every heart, he stretched his hands above us and said:  "Now the time has come when we must part, but the separation is only of our bodies, in spirit we are united.  Ye are the lights which shall be diffused; ye are the waves of that sea which shall spread and overflow the world.  Each wave is precious to me and my nostrils shall be gladdened by your fragrance.  Another commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another even as I love you.  Great mercy and blessings are promised to the people of your land, but
page 254
on one condition; that their hearts be filled with the fire of love, that they live in perfect kindness and harmony like one soul in different bodies, like one soul in different bodies.  If they fail in this condition the great blessings will be deferred.  Never forget this; look at one another with the eye of perfection; look at me, follow me, be as I am; take no thought for yourselves or your lives, whether ye eat or whether ye sleep, whether ye are comfortable, whether ye are well or ill, whether ye are with friends or foes, whether ye receive praise or blame; for all of these things ye must care not at all.  Look at me and be as I am; ye must die to yourselves and to the world, so shall ye be born again and enter the kingdom of heaven.  Behold a candle how it gives light.  It weeps its life away drop by drop in order to give forth its flame of light. ...  The time has come when we must part, but the separation is only of our bodies; in spirit we are united forever."
__________
From Utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Pilgrims in 1905.
"If you should receive news in America that I have been thrown into the sea or carried away to an unknown place, if you should receive word that I have been tortured and killed-change not, grieve not; nay, rather, be more firm, be more rejoiced, and let your steadfastness grow and increase.  For our meeting-place is the Kingdom of God.  There shall we meet.  I am always in great danger.  Perhaps in an hour a telegram may come and everything here be changed.  Therefore, hold fast to the Cause of God; be firm, whether I am in this world or not.  Wherever I may be-here or in the nest world-I will always ask assistance for you."
__________
Extract from a Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá dated 30 December 1905.
"If thou question regarding the trials and difficulties of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-that is a sea boundless, full of storms and surging.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá is in perfect peace and composure and in complete joy and happiness and tranquillity; nay, it is for him a ready banquet and an adorned feast.  I hope that at the end of this feast and banquet the overflowing chalice of martyrdom will come around to him, and then will he be intoxicated by that wine.
"But as to you.  You must not look at the catastrophes of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Consider power and strength, and withstand the world for the sake of the love of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Bear the persecution of the enemies and the blame of those who oppose.  Under all conditions My soul and My life shall abide with you in this world as well as the world above."


XII:16, 31 December1921
page 252
"The Master and his whole family narrowly escaped crucifixion"
Letter from Major W. Tudor-Pole.
London, England,
2 December 1921.
To the Star of the West,
We have not cabled to you this week in any official way, as the news from Haifa will have reached you direct by cable as soon as it came here, and our hands have been pretty full in doing all in our power to make the arrangements which are referred to in the enclosed memorandum.9
The writer, on behalf of the English friends, and on his own behalf, would like to join with the American friends in prayer and praise for a great and noble life wonderfully lived and finally crowned by a peaceful passing into the Wider Realms.  Probably there is no one who knows so well as the present writer that the Master and his whole family narrowly escaped crucifixion on the Mount of Carmel two days before we entered Haifa in August, 1918.  This tragic event was only frustrated by the unexpectedly swift advance of Allenby's troops, which forced the Turkish authorities out of Haifa before they even had time to carry out their terrible threat, or to take the Master and his family with them into the hills as hostages.  Knowing all the facts at first hand, I can join with the friends throughout the world in thanksgiving that the last few years of the Master's life were spent in comparative peace and tranquillity, and that his passing over was not marred by any tragic or untoward events.
Shoghi Rabbání and his sister will be returning to Haifa towards the end of the present month, and they will be accompanied by Lady Blomfield, and by Díyá'u'lláh Asgharzádih.
We have not yet received any further details from Haifa beyond the first cablegram, dated 3 p.m., 28/11/21, as follows:  "His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá ascended to Abhá Kingdom.  Inform friends.  (signed) Greatest Holy Leaf", but we expect further news hourly and daily, and shall be only too glad to share with you all that is received.
Although it is perhaps early days to discuss the matter, I anticipate that the
page 253
American friends will be considering the production of a Memoir, and if the present writer, or any of the other friends in London who have recently been in the East, can be of service in helping you with the material for this volume, we shall be pleased.  We are, of course, not satisfied with the references that have been made in the Times, Morning Post, Daily Mail, and other papers to the event, but we have done the best we could, and so far as the New York World was concerned, writer saw their representative here late last night, and he hopes that the cable that was sent out to New York was of an accurate and satisfactory character.
The pressure here is so great that at the moment we cannot enter into further details, much as we should like to do so-this is simply a note to assure the American friends that we are one with them in profound sympathy, as is indeed the case with friends throughout the world.  Yours in faith and friendship,
W. Tudor-Pole.


XII:17, 19 January 1922
page 259
The Ascension of 'Abdu'l-Bahá10
Account from Newspapers and Letters, received and translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, December 1921, Chicago.
__________
[Article from newspaper Annafir, Haifa, 6 December 1921.  Accents added and some spelling changes made.-M.W.T.]
"THE MOST GREAT CALAMITY-THE DEPARTURE OF THE PERSONIFICATION OF HUMANITARIANISM, ABDU'L-BAHA ABBAS."
His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá 'Abbás departed from this earthly world and ascended to the Most Glorious Abhá Kingdom, 28 November at 1:30 a.m., 1921, at Haifa, Palestine.  The funeral was on Tuesday, 29 November at 9 a.m.
...
page 260
...
The funeral procession of 'Abdu'l-Bahá-The momentous hour.
When the clock struck nine, Tuesday morning, 29 November 1921, the wide street, Allenby Road, was congested with the crowds from its starting place to the summit of Mount Carmel.  The hearts were throbbing, the breasts heavy, the tongues dumb.  Quietness and homage prevailed and the throng was a solid mountain.  In the front ranks of those who came to pay the last tribute of love and farewell were Sir Herbert Samuel, the Governor-General of the Holy Land, and the members of his staff, who came from Jerusalem to attend the funeral.  Mr Sims, the Governor of Phoenicia, the Consuls of all the Governments, the Mu-
page 261
slim, the Christian and Jewish religious leaders, his relatives and his followers, who were burning with their grief, shedding their tears, throwing themselves on his casket, giving their last kisses to it-those kisses so filled with heat and yearning that they would restore life and bring back the soul to the stilled body if life could be restored and the soul could be brought back.  Then, when they withdrew from that thrilling stand and painful scene, their sobs and moans were raised.  Their cries and tears burst forth as the casket, with what it contained of Wisdom, Eloquence and Knowledge, was carried on the palms of the hands of the men.
The casket was of plain white wood covered with precious Persian shawls.  The procession moved, surrounded by the crowd of onlookers and encircled by the sorrowful hearts.  In the fore ranks was a company of police and their officers; then the Muslim and the Christian Boy Scouts with bands and flags; then the personal guards of the Consuls; then the leaders of the various Muslim sects were in front of the casket, chanting heart-touching hymns.  Behind the casket marched the Governor-general and his staff with utmost dignity.  The procession proceeded with perfect order until it arrived half way up the summit of Mount Carmel; then all stood silent, immovable, as if birds were perched upon their heads.
Notwithstanding the uphill climb none showed any signs of fatigue until they arrived at the Tomb of the Báb.  It was then 10:20 a.m.  The casket was placed on a dais near the high and majestic Tomb which commanded the most beautiful view on Mount Carmel.  The Governor-general and his staff, the learned and the leaders of all sects made a ring by standing around the casket.  When all the people in the procession had arrived at the Tomb, it made a scene such as Haifa had never witnessed before.
Eulogies given by the leaders and the poets of the Muslims, Christians and Jews of the Holy Land.
Yúsúf Effendi al-Khatíb, a famous Muslim orator, was the first speaker.  He said:  "O Arab and Persian gentlemen:  Why do I see you gathered here?  What are you contemplating and of what are you thinking?  Is it of death, or the living dead?  Every day caravans of dead men pass before your eyes, yet you do not pay attention to them.  Then for whom are you weeping?  Is it for the one who was great yesterday and today in his departure is greater?  Is it for the one whom you call your guide and philosopher?  There should be no weeping for the one who departed to the eternal world.  Then weep for the loss of bounty and courtesy!  Mourn for the loss of knowledge and generosity!  Weep for yourselves because you are the losers!  As to him whom you have lost, he is no other than one departed from your mortal world to the immortal and everlasting realm.  Weep for one hour for the one who has wept for you for eighty years.  Look right and left, East and West, and tell me the true news.  What a vacancy has taken place in nobility and dignity; what a pillar of peace has tottered; what a fluent and eloquent tongue has become silent!  Ah me!  Calamity is devoid of a grief-stricken heart and weeping eye; it has left you young people to mourn your elders, and made you elders to mourn your youth!  Woe unto the poor, for charity has left them!  Woe unto the orphans, for their merciful father has gone away from them!  Would that Sir 'Abdu'l-Bahá 'Abbás could be redeemed by precious souls, for then they would be sacrificed to him!  But this is the will of God, and nothing can stop it.  Which one of his perfect deeds can I mention to you when they are greater than can be mentioned and more than can be counted!  It is sufficient to say
page 262
that in every heart he has left a glorious trace and on every tongue a beautiful mention.  One who leaves behind him such a glorious history and eternal memory is, indeed, not of the dead!  O family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  Console yourselves with patience, because it is impossible for an oriental or an occidental to comfort you and not find himself in more need of consolation!"
Ibráhím Effendi Nassár (one of the most celebrated Christian writers) was the second speaker.  He said:  "'I wept for the departure of my Master and anyone like me will weep for the departure of his Master.'  For whom is this mourning and shock?  What is this weeping and crying?  What has happened to the people?  Has a mountain sunk into the earth?  Or has the earth quaked?  No; not this, nor that.  It is that 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the great soul of bestowal, has departed.  'They took him out and all are weeping.  It is like the shock of Moses when Mount Tôr fell.'  O what a calamity is this!  It is a national loss and an universal ordeal, for the roots of the heart are cut out and in such a thrilling moment the garments are rent asunder.  O my burning heart!  In the passing away of the Master, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the mountain of charity and generosity has fallen!  The echo of his departure sounds in all parts of the world.  Therefore humanity is painfully suffering; the tongues are repeating the mentioning of his abundant bounties; the eyes are weeping, and the hearts are bleeding!  Ah me!  'Abdu'l-Bahá lived about eighty years and the miracle of his life was like the lives of the prophets.  He has trained, taught, assisted, rescued and guided the souls to the straight path.  He brought upon the people great glory.  O people, listen:  'Abdu'l-Bahá is not dead, nor is the light of Bahá'u'lláh extinguished.  Far from it.  His rays will ever remain shining.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, the beloved of Bahá'u'lláh, has lived a life from which emanated the significances of the mortal.  Therefore, the spiritual took the place of his physical life.  And he ascended from this world to the Paradise of the Lord as a pure angel accompanied by his good deeds and his sublime attributes.  Yea, O my people!  You are taking the body of the great one whom we have lost to its last resting-place, but rest assured that your 'Abdu'l-Bahá will remain forever living among you in the spirit, in his words, in his sayings, in his qualities and in all the essences of his life.  We are bidding farewell to our physical 'Abdu'l-Bahá, as his physical body disappears from our sight, but our spiritual 'Abdu'l-Bahá will never leave our minds, our thoughts, our hearts, and his mention will never depart from our lives.  O 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  O thou great and generous one!  Thou art resting now.  Thou didst bestow life upon us, guided us and taught us.  Thou hast lived among us, great, with all that the word greatness means.  Verily, we glory in thy deeds and thy sayings.  Thou didst raise the station of the East to the highest pinnacle of glory.  Thou didst perform and complete thy efforts.  Therefore thou hast gained the crown of Majesty.  O ye branches of the Tree of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  I come to you.  I am the sorrowful one.  I ask my Lord to bestow upon you a beautiful comfort and to console us by protecting you."
Professor Muhammad Murád Muftí, Muslim Judge of the Judicial Law and the Muslim Chief of Haifa, was the third speaker.  He said:  "When nations lose one of their great men, whether he is great in his knowledge or great in his generosity or great in his politics or great in his principles and his benevolence, they comfort themselves in this:  that there must come out from among their sons a genius who will become a successor to that great departed man.  But the calamity of the world of
page 263
humanity in the loss of the benevolent 'Abdu'l-Bahá cannot be compared to any other calamity, because his vacancy will never be filled by any of the people.  I do not like to exaggerate in praising this great personage, because his generous hands in the path of service to humanity and his philanthropic deeds none can deny, save one whose eyes God has blinded.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was great in all the stages of his life.  He was genius itself, high in character and had the best reputation.  He was famous in the East of the earth and in the West.  He possessed this exalted station through his untiring work and he gained the highest place in the hearts through his help to the helpless, his rescue of the hopeless and his comfort to the afflicted.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was a great, learned and remarkable professor.  Even if his physical body has disappeared from the eyes, his immortal deeds will never disappear from the minds.  Even if the physical 'Abdu'l-Bahá has passed away, his name will never pass away.  O thou benevolent one who art departed!  Thou hast lived greatly and thou hast departed great!  This big and majestic procession and this overwhelming gathering is only a brilliant proof of thy greatness in life and in death.  But who is to help the poor after thee, O thou whom we have lost?  Who is to assist the hungry and the distressed?  Nay, rather, who is to succour the widows and the orphans after the departure of the one who is the embodiment of goodness, kindness and humanitarianism?  Then rest thou comfortably in thy resting-place.  Thou knowest what is the end of the life of one possessed of such qualities.  Verily, he is a miracle in his deeds and eternal in his work.  May God inspire thy family and relatives with beautiful patience in this great calamity."
Professor 'Abdu'lláh Effendi Mukhlis (one of the distinguished, learned Muslims) was the fourth speaker.  He said:  "Have you seen the sun set, the disappearance of the moon and the falling of the stars?  Have you heard of the crumbling of the thrones, the levelling of the mountains?  Have you felt the thrilling and dreadful tragedies that are caused by the accidents that occur in experimental innovations that make the souls and the hearts and the bodies tremble?  All such tragedies cannot be mentioned in comparison with our most great calamity for which it behoves us to rend our hearts. ...  Yea, the sun of knowledge has set; the moon of virtues has disappeared; the throne of glory has crumbled, and the mountain of kindness is levelled by the departure of this benevolent one from the mortal world to the immortal realm.  I do not need to explain the sublimity of the great one whom we have lost or to enumerate his great qualities, for all of you who are just are witnesses and can testify to what has been given him of personal beauty, beauty of his character, greatness of his heart, vastness of the sea of his knowledge and generosity.  Alas! who after him will feed the hungry, clothe the naked, rescue the distressed, guide those astray, help the widows, assist the orphans and satisfy those who thirst for knowledge from his pure fountain and beautiful rose-gardens?  Nay, rather, who will after him address the meetings, stand in the pulpits, use the pen and paper?  All are left without their only banner, their incomparable hero and their shining moon.  I beg your pardon if I fail in doing my duty as far as faithfulness is concerned or if I am unable to pay the generous one who has departed what he deserves of the best and highest praise, because what my tongue utters has emanated from a tender memory and broken heart.  Indeed, they are wounds and not words; they are tears and not phrases.
And you, O Bahá'í gentlemen!  This is
page 265
not your calamity alone.  Nay, rather, it is a blow to Islám, and a calamity for the whole world, of the past and the present.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá are spread in the East of the earth and in the West and the Bahá'ís, who are very numerous, join with us in this commemoration.  O, I can well imagine what the Bahá'ís are going through today when they receive the shocking news by cablegrams.  O how they are seeking patience, but are not finding it; asking for consolation, but cannot gain it, and looking for comfort, but cannot find the way.  Therefore the sacred countries of Hijáz, Egypt, Damascus and Persia that have produced this precious jewel and priceless pearl, is sharing with the Holy Land its grief and sorrow for the generous one who has departed and now is resting in the heart of Mount Carmel, the dwelling-place of Elijah and Joshua and the rest of their prophet brethren.  May God send upon us and unto you reward and recompense, bestow upon us and unto you patience for this calamity.  'This calamity has made all previous calamities to be forgotten.  But this calamity will never be forgotten.'"
Shaykh Yúnis Effendi al-Khatíb (a noted Muslim poet) was the fifth speaker.  He recited a poem that he composed:  "'God has ordained the departure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who is the Lord of virtues, perfections and wisdom.  The people are weeping and mourning because of the separation from the one who was the eye of all time.  He planted favours in his sublime rose-garden.  They grew and bore sweet fruits.  The creatures are the collective witnesses of his perfections and deeds that surpassed everything. ...'"
His honour Bishop Bassilious (the leader and head of the Greek Catholic Church of Haifa) was the sixth speaker.  The Bishop spoke in the praise of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, especially mentioning his remarkable, majestic personality and his matchless philanthropic deeds toward the poor.
Wadí' Effendi Bustání (one of the brightest Christian youths and poets) was the seventh speaker.  He recited a poem that he composed:  "'In the souls and in the minds thou art immortal.  One like thee, who has all perfections, virtues and honours, is eternal. ...
page 265
For thy departure they are weeping in grief.  In their hearts thou art, and thou art their hope.  In their eyes thou art ever present, and so is thy father, Bahá'u'lláh.  'Akká has embraced him (Bahá'u'lláh) in its delightful place, Bahjí; and Haifa has opened its bosom for thy tomb, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  O 'Abdu'l-Bahá, son of Bahá'u'lláh!  Men die, but their names live.  O 'Abdu'l-Bahá, O son of Bahá'u'lláh!  May my soul be a sacrifice to one like thee.  Thou art the all-wise, and all else beside thee are only learned.  What can the poets say in thy day?  Thou hast dawned in the West-then its morning appeared.  They have seen thy light from afar and we are flooded with thy effulgence.  O 'Abdu'l-Bahá, O son of Bahá'u'lláh!  Thou wert just as God wanted thee to be and not as others wished.  Thou hast departed in the Holy Land wherein Christ and the Virgin Mary lived.  The land that received Muhammad; the land the dust of which is blessing and wealth.  The land we consecrate, even if it oppresses.  Therein is a paradise and a heaven.  The tombs of the saints shall not be degraded; the souls will be their sacrifice.  We shall be sustained by this Tomb and the One it contains.  The covenant of love and devotion will remain forever between us. ...'"
Mr Salomon Bouzaglo (one of the most progressive Jewish leaders in Haifa) was the eighth speaker.  He spoke in French.  He said:  "It is very strange in this infidel, faithless and absolutely materialistic age that there should appear such a great philosopher as the one whom we mourn, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  It is he who speaks to the hearts and consciences, satisfies the thirsty souls with his teachings and principles which are known to be the best foundation for all religions.  He knew how to convince, with his words and explanations-the greatest orthodox of the age.  As to his life, it was the living example of self-sacrifice, preferring the good and the welfare of others to his own.  Blessed are those who were near him, for they have read in him the greatest page of religious and social philosophy.  Since the days of Aristotle until this day all philosophers and social reformers have been fanatically using every means to uphold their own sectarian and limited theories, and woe unto whomsoever disagreed with them.  But here with 'Abdu'l-Bahá there is no prejudice of any kind.  All men are brothers.  Here is found the essence of humanitarianism and the best principles of all the religions.  The Jewish, Christian and Muslim prophets who were seeking to establish such a spiritual brotherhood are in this day stretching their arms to embrace the Prophet 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his sacred principles.  The philosophy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is plain and simple, but it is big and comprehensive.  It conforms to every human taste and by its virtues all prejudices and superstitions vanish. ...  The philosophy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is original.  It is logical, reasonable and scientific.  It is clearly evident that the age needs such a philosophy.  In spite of our dependence upon the power of inventions, discoveries and scientific researches, human hearts are singing the melodies of universal peace.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, and before him Bahá'u'lláh, have carried on their shoulders this glorious work-the establishment of universal peace.  There are two factors, two things that always separated or differentiated the East from the West.  On one hand you see the West striving to discover the secrets of nature, to bring out the hidden things and make science grow by all that it can, through inventions and discoveries.  On the other hand, you see the East as the dawning-place of the great prophets, the founders of religions and law-givers.  They spread and grow and the hearts and the souls become filled with their spiritual lights.  Therefore the East and the West are rivals.  The first is exalted
page 266
by its religions, and the second by its inventions.  Both are essential for the life of our body politic.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has departed at Haifa, Palestine, the Holy Land, wherein the prophets appeared throughout centuries and ages, and this fact has been demonstrated today in the departure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  We are not the only ones who are weeping for him in whom we take pride.  Nay, rather, there are many in Europe and America and in all the world who thirst for his universal principles which are conducive to real brotherhood, who are weeping, too, for missing 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has departed after remaining some forty years in the Turkish prison city 'Akká.  Baghdád, the capital city of the 'Abbásid kings, also had witnessed his and his father's imprisonment.  As to Persia, the ancient cradle, it had rejected its children!  Does not it seem that there is a divine wisdom in all these affairs in specializing the Holy Land to be, as it always has been and always shall be, the source of higher and more spiritual idealism?"
Shaykh As'ad Shuqayr (a most prominent Muslim scholar and statesman) was the ninth speaker.  He said:  "The ancient and modern Muslim Arabs have been accustomed to hold ceremonies to eulogize their departed ones for certain purposes:  (1) To teach some good lessons to those who are present and can hear; (2) To awaken the heedless and the negligent; as the prophet Muhammad once said to Omar, 'Death is a sufficient teacher'; (3) To encourage the hearers to follow in the steps of the departed one and to characterize themselves with his excellent morals and good deeds; (4) To comfort his family and his people by mentioning of his sublime qualities; then the hearts will sympathize with them and this will lighten some of the heavy burden of the painful calamity; (5) That every thoughtful soul may gain according to his capacity and insight; it should be evident that every creature voluntarily lives and goes about; thinks, assists, teaches and administers; often, with the assistance of his Creator, he investigates the Manifestations of his perfection.  Then the end comes.  I am grieved over such eulogies.  The Master, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, is considered one of the inhabitants of 'Akká because these inhabitants lived with him for more than forty years.  His meetings were meetings of learning wherein he explained all the heavenly books and traditions.  His philosophy includes all philosophy, ancient and modern.  His philanthropies to the widows and orphans were never interrupted.  Whenever a friend of his passed away he never forgot the survivors with his charity and generosity.  He had so great a station; yet he never failed to help the distressed!  In the winter season he met with the learned and notables of 'Akká at the home of Shaykh 'Alíy-i-Myrí, and in the summer the meetings were held in a court in the Fakhúrih (near the home of Bahá'u'lláh).  In both of those meetings the attendants found him a book of history, a commentary on all the heavenly Scriptures, a philosophy of the pages of contemporary events that pertain to scientific or artistic topics.  Then he moved to Haifa, and then went to Europe and America where he gave comprehensive and eloquent addresses and exhortations.  His intention was to bring about unity among religions and sects and to remove the severe strife from their hearts and from their tongues, to urge them to take hold of the essence and let go the nonessential.  He did that by presenting his message in a scientific manner.  A group of Persians and others criticized him and found fault with his ideals in pamphlets they published and spread.  Nevertheless, without paying any attention to their criticism and oppositions, nor being hurt by their hatred and enmity, he
page 267
went forward and proclaimed his teachings.  It is the law of God among His creatures-a law which will not be changed-that the originator and declarer of principles must inevitably have those who agree and praise and those who disagree and reject."
Muhammad Effendi Safadí (a highly educated Muslim poet) composed and read a poem:
"On Sunday night heaven was opened and the spirit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá flew with its glory.
It was received and entertained by the prophets.
He was washed by the Water of Paradise.
All the people reverently walked for him, even the Kings and their Governors.
O Mount Carmel, thou art now more proud than the heaven, for thou hast become the holiest mountain.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, thou art now missed by those thou didst care for; thou didst cure their ailments and thou wert their remedy.
I shall weep with tears for thee as long as I am living; how often thou didst wipe them with thy hands;
It is befitting that the creatures should weep for thee, because in thy departure they have lost their moon and intelligence.
God is great:  Adam, Moses, Christ and Muhammad have sung praises to thy soul, yearning for its meeting.
If I could, I would have composed a poem of the jewels of the stars for the praise of the people of 'Abdu'l-Bahá."


XII:18, 7 February 7 1922
page 275
"The beloved Master knew beforehand when he would leave us"
Letter from Munavvar Khánum, daughter of His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, to Ruth Wales Randall, Boston.
Haifa, Palestine, 22 December 1921.
My beloved sister,
Though overwhelmed by grief, yet we are confirmed in the Covenant, assured of His nearness and loyal to His blessed Cause and to His Love.
We are spending these wonderful days of our greatest sorrow in utmost resignation to His holy will-for we know death can never separate us from Him nor can it affect our strong faith in Him.
We beg our beloved sisters and brothers and implore them to arise with us in perfect union and love to serve Him-obeying every single command in His Holy Testament with utmost devotion.  For, dear sister, today is the day in which we must prove our sincerity, love and loyalty.  For I feel we especially who have lived with Him, and you who have seen and known Him personally-as well as all the Bahá'ís in general, have a great responsibility now.  Therefore we must first throw away the self and sacrifice everything for the sake of His Cause-we must wish for nothing but the welfare of the Cause.
The beloved Master knew exactly beforehand when he would leave us.  The reason I know this so certainly is on account of a dream which he had about two weeks before the end (the dream was that Bahá'u'lláh appeared to him and said:  "Destroy this room in which you are" the "room" being his blessed body), and also because he requested us to send for Shoghi Effendi to come back from Oxford, England, "for a very great and important reason," as he said.  He also gave us many hints of his approaching departure.
On Saturday, 26 November, he had fever, which left him entirely by the next morning.  As soon as he felt the fever he called me and said:  "This is very serious.  This is the beginning now."  On Sunday (the 27th) he seemed quite natural and at 5 p.m. received several visitors.  The last of these was an Englishman and he gave him a present of Persian handkerchiefs.  He retired to rest about 8:30 and at mid-night was resting quietly.  At a quarter past one he felt difficulty in breathing and at 1:30 a.m., Monday morning (the 28th), everything was over.  There was not the least agitation or agony.  It was so calm that we could not realize that he was going.  The funeral took place on Tuesday, the 29th, at 9 a.m.  Everyone who could possibly do so came from 'Akká and Haifa and walked in the procession.  The High Commissioner, Sir Herbert Samuel, came up especially from Jerusalem to attend and insisted on walking the whole way to the Tomb of the Báb, where is the present resting place of the body of our Beloved One.  The Governor of Jerusalem, the Governor of Haifa and many
page 276
people of all faiths-Muslims, Christians, Jews and Druses-were present, a representative of each of these great faiths gave an address beside the Tomb.  These speeches were really the embodiment of His own teaching.  These men spoke so highly of the beloved Master and said so much that there was nothing left for the Bahá'ís to add.
He has written His last instructions enclosed in an envelope addressed to Shoghi Effendi-therefore we cannot open it until he arrives, which will be, we hope, about the end of this month, as he is now on his way here.
Dear sister, we ought to prepare ourselves in order to obey every single word which these instructions contain-and if we are assisted from the Kingdom of Abhá to do this then His departure will be no loss to the Cause but rather a gain, as His spirit will now be free to help us universally!
Best greetings from my aunt, my mother and sisters to you and to all the dear friends, with great appreciation of your letters of condolence and sympathy.  Yours affectionately in His Name,
(Signed) Munavvar.
P.S.  You can send copies of this letter to friends for they would like to hear about it all and no time to write to each separately now.


XII:18, 7 February 7 1922
page 276
"The shock of his death was indeed as an earthquake"
Letters from Louise Bosch to Ella G. Cooper.
Alláh-u-Abhá!
Haifa, Palestine, 5 December 1921.
Beloved sister in God,
Your cablegram to the holy household was received, and the one to my husband, too.  Both were appreciated and later on you will hear more about it.
This is not the moment that I want to engage in writing, but inasmuch as you have cabled my husband saying that you were longing for news, I make an effort to write you.  I have not written to Geyserville (California), to Tahiti, or to Switzerland, and I know not what our friends there will think of us for not writing and telling them all about this great occurrence and happening.
As it is, I do not even know what to write you.  I can only tell you that with the departure of our Lord our former state of spirit has departed also, and as far as I myself am concerned I feel as though I were a new born babe, in a new world of which I know at present nothing.
Our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá passed from this earth early Monday morning.  It was at half-past one o'clock-that is to say, one and one-half hours after midnight on Sunday.  He had no illness in bed.  His departure from this world was a rather sudden occurrence.  It was half an hour before he closed his benign eyes forever that he said to Rúhá Khánum [his daughter], who was alone in the room with him, "I am dying."  There was no one else in the room with him, as all were in their respective beds asleep, no one imagining on awakening that such could be the case.  Notwithstanding the fact that our blessed 'Abdu'l-Bahá was not so well that day, and in truth had not been well for a long time, but in consideration of his work which he did each day, and the care that he took to carry out his work every day, and the attention which he paid to matters great and small,
page 277
and the visitors which he received up to the last, and his inquiries after the welfare of the pilgrims present and the sick in the village, and the requirements of the holy family-in short, notwithstanding the fever which 'Abdu'l-Bahá had that day and several days previous, which fever would come and go and was designated as malarial-the members of the household were not aware of the approaching departure.
Oh! our divine Lord went as he came; he went out of the world as he came into it "as a thief in the night".  He made no one any trouble nursing him; he did not wish any soul to give up even one single night's sleep for him.  Rúhá Khánum, as I said, was all alone in the room with him when he said to her, "I am dying," and she quickly searched her mind what to do to retain his precious life.  Assuredly she could not even lose a single second to go out of the room to call for help, much as she had that impulse, but tried some remedies that were at hand left by some physicians who had been in that day to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The holy family, of course, had often supplicated him to allow them to bring in a physician, which was granted, but merely for their sakes, not for his!  Even on that Sunday (the night on which he left us) when a physician who had been called made an injection of quinine, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said afterward to Rúhá Khánum, "I am the physician of the world!"  He did not want that injection, but to please his family he, like a lamb that unto his shearers is dumb, allowed them to do with him what they wanted.  What a lesson!  His minutest acts were great lessons to the world.  So, for instance, when John [Mr Bosch] and I first arrived here I saw that 'Abdu'l-Bahá had a cold.  Remembering how 'Abdu'l-Bahá's cold in Montreal became better from a simple remedy (Homeopathic) I had begged him to take, I persuaded him to take a new one I had with me.  I spoke several times about it to Ruhí Effendi and impressed it upon him that it was surely efficacious.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá did not get better, he sent one day (no doubt urged by Ruhí through my pleadings) for that remedy.  It surely did help his cold, and for several days he was better.  Some days after 'Abdu'l-Bahá had deigned to take my medicine, I asked him how much he had taken.  His reply, which I did not comprehend then but which I comprehend now, was this:  "I took your remedy six times-for your sake."  I know now that this means:  "Even as I have pleased you and granted your request, so even must you grant the request of others and do their will and wishes."
After Rúhá Khánum had given him some medicine, she awakened the holy mother.  The others, also Dr Krug, were sent for.  He happened to be (as a pilgrim) on the grounds.  He and his wife were lodged, and still are at the present time, in the room which 'Abdu'l-Bahá had built for himself as an addition to his house-the room to which a stairway leads, in the garden near the entrance.  So Dr Krug was not far and could come quickly; but alas!  'Abdu'l-Bahá breathed only a few times more and all became still within his holy temple.
At first we were as dumb and speechless, bewildered.  We stood or kneeled before the bed.  We gazed upon his face and could not trust our eyes.  At last the bewilderment subsided and the trust asserted itself.  Was it true that his eyes would open no more?  Would he not open his eyes to look upon us again?  Would he not open his lips to say that he was not dead?  We asked the doctors if he was dead.  They said yes, the heart had ceased to beat; they said it was useless to try to revive him-it could not be done.  Then, after awhile, the
page 278
mosquito netting over the bed was let down, and this covered from our eyes the earthly remains of our Lord.  We got up and went into the adjacent room, and the door of the room out of which we came was closed.
But before this, the blood of the wounds of this blow had begun to flow, and the hurt and the pain and the moans increased with every minute.  We five European pilgrims were in the room together with the holy family, and the holy mother held my husband's hand and the Greatest Holy Leaf held mine.  After a time we went back to the Pilgrim House, leaving the holy family alone.  It was still night-no moon at all.  Not long afterward the dawn broke, and at last the sun rose with great effulgence over the scene of this memorable night.  Then we went over to the holy household again.  We found them nearly exhausted from excessive grief.
After a little more time, many callers came and all wept bitterly.  After that new callers came and during the day and night for four or five days.  It is an Eastern custom and duty to receive and see them all, to feed them, and to have them stay over night.  It was a painful duty for the holy mother and her four daughters-not to speak of the now very feeble Greatest Holy Leaf-to see and to talk with, and to be embraced, kissed and bewailed by all these visitors.  But they went through this, too, the same as through everything else.  Throughout the days, Tablets were chanted to the visitors.
The sons-in-law and the grandsons and the six Persian pilgrims from Persia, and all the other Persians who had been like courtiers at the court of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, were all busy and engaged with the preparations for the interment, and how they could walk and talk and see, with their eyes blind from tears, was a miracle.  It seemed that so much weeping was never done since the world began.
The holy funeral took place on Tuesday morning, the casket being borne on the shoulders of men, up and up and up Mount Carmel, until the sacred spot of the Tomb of His Holiness the Báb was reached, and there 'Abdu'l-Bahá was temporarily buried.
I cannot tell and write you everything in this letter-it is too much.  You will read elsewhere of the addresses of the clergy and people on Mount Carmel.  I could write books on the procession up the way to the Tomb of the Báb.  Also photographs were taken by Curtis Kelsey and Dr Krug and you will get some later.
Ella, when those speeches were made at the Tomb of His Holiness the Báb-the casket containing the holy remains of 'Abdu'l-Bahá being outside, with the bright sunlight shining upon it-and those thousands of souls listening, that was the earthquake of which it speaks in the Holy Scriptures, and that was the rending of the veil in the temple!  They said such things of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that the earth of the hearts of the people, which had hitherto been stony, was put in motion, and the veil that was before the eyes of their purely human spirits was rent asunder, and they began to know who it was who had dwelt among them.  These speeches were made by Muslims and others who were not believers.  There has been since a great demand for literature, and the people are greatly aroused and shaken everywhere.  The Holy Spirit descended upon many who had hitherto been purely of the human spirit.  All existence has taken on a new garment, for the shock of his death was indeed as an earthquake-it could not be described as anything else.
The grief of the holy family is indescribable.  They cannot be consoled at all.  They say that nothing can console them except the hearing of the news
page 279
of the unity of the believers everywhere.  Between their tears they endeavour to explain what unity is.  They have, among themselves, and in that portion of the world in which they move and live, perfect unity.  That word has taken on a new aspect for me since the departure of our Lord.  Unity is something else than what I thought before.  Now that I know what it is, I hope to be able to carry it out, to execute it.  It isn't to teach, as so many think-that's nothing.  A Persian teacher here said yesterday that a time is coming when not any believer would breathe a single breath for himself.  That is unity!  This wonderful teaching which we have learnt is only now beginning to be understood, and this is that which 'Abdu'l-Bahá meant when he said that if we knew what would take place after his departure we would pray for his departure every day.
The holy family awaits the arrival of Shoghi Effendi Rabbání from England.  Until that time nothing will be undertaken regarding the reading of the Testament of our Lord, the Centre of the Covenant of God.  He left a letter addressed to Shoghi Effendi, and this letter he gave for safe-keeping to the holy mother, and gave the order to write to Shoghi to come home.  They asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá if they should cable Shoghi to come, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá said no, a letter would do.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said this about two weeks before his departure.
Many instances testify to the fact that 'Abdu'l-Bahá knew the date of his departure from this world.  Also he had a dream in which the Blessed Perfection [Bahá'u'lláh] told him that "this house will be destroyed".  'Abdu'l-Bahá slept in the addition, in the room before mentioned.  When the Krugs came 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave his room to them, and it was made ready for them.  When they came 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to them, "I have given you my room."  They felt badly, thinking they had put 'Abdu'l-Bahá out of his room.  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá perceived their apprehension, he consoled them by saying that Bahá'u'lláh had told him in a dream to go out of that room.  So then they were satisfied to stay there.
When delicacy seemed to dictate to me to leave here soon after the funeral of our Lord, I mentioned it to the daughters, but the holy mother replied that we should stay until after Shoghi's arrival and the reading of the Testament, for, she said, a living carrier is better than the dead mails, and the news has to be carried by the one or by the other sooner or later anyway.  And so we were glad for this extra permission to stay here, but we expect to leave soon after Shoghi's arrival.  Lady Blomfield will come along, also of course Rúhangíz [Shoghi's sister], who was in college.  They may arrive this week, perhaps on the 10 or 11 December.
O Ella, we did not have much of a visit with 'Abdu'l-Bahá during the thirteen days that John and I were here.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, however, sent once for us and gave us a talk.  Praise be to God, that we have that!  Then one evening John went to the Persian meeting which our Lord was in the habit of addressing, and, in order to favour John, and because of a remark John made to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'Abdu'l-Bahá had every sentence translated, and so John has that wonderful talk, too.
'Abdu'l-Bahá could not come every day to meals; it rained several times and the weather was bad.  Then the Krugs arrived, and soon afterward requested 'Abdu'l-Bahá not to trouble himself to come over to meals on account of us all.  Doctor Krug presented this request from the purely medical standpoint and wished to save 'Abdu'l-Bahá's strength, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá granted their request.  He said;
page 281
"Very good."  Little did they dream that we would see him no more at all at the Pilgrim House.  It was three days before the blessed departure that they made the request, and thus we had no more the pleasure of seeing him come.  It was because of the stairway, which apparently was fatiguing to him to climb.  Also, he ate so little every time he came.
Tomorrow it will be one week since we carried our blessed Lord's earthly temple to Mount Carmel.  John had the great privilege that day to assist in carrying the coffin into the room in which our Lord lay, and John also assisted in placing the holy body into the coffin.  This is John's everlasting bounty for his services rendered to the Cause, and because of the privilege he had of lifting the holy body of his Lord, John can never be the same being any more.  And he is and looks different, too.  The holy mother said that we could never in this life appreciate the privilege of having been here at just this time.  She said that in our presence here all the other American friends were also present, and in Johanna [Hauf, of Stuttgart] all the German friends were present.
'Abdu'l-Bahá is buried under the floor of the room of the Tomb of the Báb
page 282
which faces the avenue going down to the landing; that room, I mean, which used to be an assembly room.  Only two days before, we all had the feast there and were served fine tea and cakes and fruit and candy.  It was the feast of the 26 November which is called, I think, the day of the appointment of the Centre of the Covenant, or 'Abdu'l-Bahá's day.  'Abdu'l-Bahá stayed at home, and he was not with us in body.  Afterward the Krugs went in to call upon the holy family, and thus they saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá and he said to them, "I was with you in spirit, though not in body."  No one thought then or conceived the idea that he would pass out of the body that night.
But now I must assuredly close and finish this letter, although there remains so much more to say.  We hope to go verbally over all the details if it is our destiny to reach California again.
The holy family says that although the Lord is not here any more except in spirit, yet all are welcome here the same as before.  To see the friends and to receive them is one of the joys of their restricted lives here.  But I told them that no doubt soon the doors of travel would open to them, and their life's desire to go to Persia may now soon be fulfilled.
Yesterday one of the Persian teachers said that if it were not for the closing of the doors of suicide and the opening of the doors of martyrdom, many Persian believers would now find life unendurable.  As the expenditure of life through martyrdom is accepted before God, so we may soon hear of many Persian Bahá'ís killed; they will throw themselves recklessly into the stream of the consequences of fearless open teaching.
We will send you as soon as we can obtain them some of the newspaper articles.  All else for the future.
Love to your mother and all the friends.
In Bahá
(Signed) Louise Bosch.
__________
Alláh-u-Abhá!
Haifa, Palestine, 9 December 1921.
Dearest Ella,
Enclosed please find the Arabic newspaper which contains the speeches made at the holy burial of our Lord and Master on 29 November.  He was buried at 9 a.m.-that is to say, the procession started from the holy household at 9 a.m.
This particular newspaper brings all the speeches that were made by the Muslim clergy, as well as a speech made by a Frenchman who is a newspaper correspondent.  These speeches are remarkable, inasmuch as the believers had nothing at all to do with these speeches or with any newspaper articles regarding the passing away of our Lord; no, rather all this is the testimony of outsiders and opposers.  So you must realize what this means, when even the opposers came and testified to the greatness of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and to the sublimity of his life, and the purpose of his work, and the magnitude of his aims.  The ladies of the holy household were very much pleased with all the speeches when they heard about them, and when they afterward read11 them
page 283
they said, repeating the Arabic proverb, "The virtue is quite true when it is testified to by the enemy."
Dear Ella, were I to wait until some of the boys had translated this newspaper into English it would no doubt take several years.  They have been accustomed to translate tablets and supplications, but that is past now for the present, and they are busy doing other things.  So I thought I'd leave it to your brightness of mind to find a way to have it translated, perhaps at the University of California.
As soon as I had mentioned this the other Westerners here thought that they, too, ought to send a copy each one to their respective friends at home to see how best they could have it translated.  Mrs Krug will send one to Anne Boylan of New York, and Johanna one to Germany.
The ladies said that the outsiders and the opposers had said and published so much in honour of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that nothing whatever remained for the believers to say.  It was as though the Holy Spirit spoke out of those clergymen and people, as though they had received open vision right then and there.  And many, many other souls began to know more or less suddenly who it was who had been here and gone.  Even one of the daughters said to me that it was now as though she had never before known 'Abdu'l-Bahá (her holy father), as though it were only now that she began to realize who he had been.  So you might know what the feelings of others must be if that holy woman feels that way about our Lord.  It is sure that I feel as though I had never known or seen him, Mrs Krug is a flaming torch; she is as though intoxicated with the wine of the love of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  'Abdu'l-Bahá had always favoured her much, as her heart is pure and clean like that of a child, and she is not at all selfish, but always had much love for everybody.  As far as I am concerned, I am not a flame of fire, but rather ill.
The ladies said that by what the outsiders and the opposers had said and published it could be seen what the ascension of our Lord had done for them, how it had affected them, and how they were feeling from it now.  They said they hoped that no one would stop coming here now that our Lord is not here any more, but that the friends all over would realize that they are always welcome here, and that it always would be a great happiness to the holy household to receive and welcome them.  During their first days of mourning they cried many times for the friends, and wished that all, all, could be present, that all, all could be here together at the same time, all the friends and believers and near and dear ones, from the Occident and the Orient.  They said often"
"O how sorry we feel for the grief of the believers all over the world when they hear the sad news.  How disappointed the friends will feel!"  From their own sorrow they judged the sorrow of the others.  They are holy women, and it is such a privilege for me to learn to know them better every day.
Shoghi sent a cable saying that he cannot be here (on account of passport difficulties) until about Christmas, so we shall not get away from Haifa until the New Year or so, and we do not know when we shall be back home.  We shall not endeavour to go to Jerusalem or to Lebanon.
Much love to you and mother and all.  More later.
Love,
(Signed) Louise Bosch.


XII:18, 7 February 1922
page 280
"You must not injure yourselves or commit suicide"
Letter from Ahmad Tabrízí to Dr Díyá Baghdádí.
Haifa, Palestine,
29 November 1921.
My dear brother,
I am grieved to announce to you in brief that the Master, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, has ascended to the Kingdom by his own will.  In some of his writings and Tablets which are not yet made public, he clearly stated in regard to his departure.  Also in his talks to the friends, in the meetings and even to the strangers and visitors he made similar remarks.  Soon I will write you and send you the details.
His latest advices and admonitions to the friends are to the effect that they must be in perfect unity and harmony.
He said:  "There shall not be any separation among the believers because Bahá'u'lláh has appointed the House of Justice to be the authority.  In the future many false traditions and untrue statements will appear, but the men of the House of Justice will with great power stop the mouths of the liars.  All difficult problems must be referred to the House of Justice."
Mírzá 'Abu'l-Hasan Afnán (a noble gentleman from the family of the Báb, for many years living near 'Abdu'l-Bahá), realizing the approach of the most great calamity-the Master's ascension-could not wait to see it, and therefore he drowned himself here, in the sea.
The Master, in advising us and all the friends, said:  "You must not injure yourselves or commit suicide. ...  It is not permissible to do to yourselves what Mírzá Hasan Afnán did to himself.  Should anyone at any time encounter hard and perplexing times, he must say to himself, 'This will soon pass.'  Then he will be calm and quiet.  In all my calamity and difficulties I used to say to myself, 'This will pass away.'  Then I became patient.  If anyone cannot be patient and cannot endure, and if he wishes to become a martyr, then let him arise in service to the Cause of God.  It will be better for him
page 281
if he attains to martyrdom in this path.  Arise ye in service to the Cause of God as the Apostles arose after the departure of Christ."
The Master has left a will which is His Covenant, written with his own blessed hand.  As soon as it is read, I shall write to you what it contains.  It is the hour of firmness and the moment of steadfastness.  Blessed are those who are faithful to the Cause and loyal to the Covenant.
Your brother,
Ahmad.


XII:19, 2 March 1922
page 291
"The beauty of the Beloved disappeared and the hearts are melted by this great calamity"
Letter from Muhammad Sa'íd Adham to the Star of the West
Alexandria, Egypt, 1 January 1922.
Dear Bahá'í friends,
You must have heard the sad news of the departure of our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá from this ephemeral world to the Kingdom of Abhá.
The news came to us as a thunderbolt that breaks the mountains and shakes the very fibre of the hearts.  We could do nothing but weep-until wearied by weeping the tears stopped flowing.  Our hearts are broken, and whenever we meet those who have not yet heard the news, the tears gush forth like a fountain; but the fire of our sorrow cannot be extinguished.  Our only hope is that God may confirm us in His Cause and grant us favour and patience in this great calamity.  Those who have been privileged to be in His divine presence and in whose hearts His love has grown firm, know that His departure is the greatest loss that can be imagined, and that patience is impossible save through His kindness and bounty.  Our sorrow is beyond expression, and as I am a stranger to English, this adds to the difficulty of expressing myself on such a sad occasion.
The friends here all have the same feeling and the fire of sorrow is blazing in their breasts.  Since then it is very noticeable that there is more love, more firmness, more unity, more tolerance and more desire for service.  All this is observed in the faces of the friends, and the more so as the violators appear and endeavour to play their personal intrigues on the pages of some of the daily papers.  The friends here have unanimously agreed not to pay the slightest attention to them, never to associate with them and never to listen to their words, for in reality they are the bitter enemies of our Beloved and of the Cause.
For thirty years the violators have tried to harm the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh and have denied the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá-and this denial shall never be forgotten.  The violators aspire only to leadership and authority, and try to use the Cause to accomplish their wicked ends, and to them it is not a question of faith and service.  Bahá'u'lláh gave an explicit command, which they have absolutely refused to obey.  He commanded all to turn to the Centre of the Covenant, and this they have foolishly and maliciously refused to do, and in so doing they have violated the first and most essential command of Bahá'u'lláh, namely, that after the departure of Bahá'u'lláh they should turn to the Centre of the Covenant, "He whom God hath purposed", 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  By the word of Bahá'u'lláh and the very existence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, He ('Abdu'l-Bahá) was a divine being and not only a material son of Bahá'u'lláh.  Jesus Christ had brothers and sisters, but no mention of them was recorded in the New Testament.  The violators supposed that 'Abdu'l-Bahá was a material son
page 292
like unto them.  So it lies with you now, in America, who know this question very well, to prevent any communication between the friends and the violators, and not to admit the violators to your meetings.
The departure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá took place at Haifa on Monday, 28 November 1921, at 1:30 a.m., after an attack of bronchitis lasting about three days, during which time the Master met visitors as usual.  In the afternoon of the last day (Sunday, 27 November) three of the notables visited him, remaining with him from 2 to 5 p.m.  He talked with them in his customary way and walked to the door with them, where they begged him, for the sake of his health, not to tire himself any longer.  'Abdu'l-Bahá then talked to the family about his departure, encouraging them and exhorting them to continue his work.
Among the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was this:  "From this day the Cause has begun, and the friends are now stronger to bear the responsibility of the Cause."  He also said that he had many friends all over the world, while when Jesus Christ departed he had only a few.  He spoke up to a few moments before he drew his last breath.  Doctor Krug was present when he closed his eyes.  Our friend Joseph Hebeqa, who was sent from Alexandria to Haifa on behalf of the friends, relates that Doctor Krug was so affected that he did not speak, but sat by himself meditating and sobbing, and went to the Tomb, where he would kneel and sob, bowing his forehead to the ground, and owing to his illness it was necessary at times for the friends to help him rise again to his feet.  This shows how deep is the grief of the friends, when one like Doctor Krug, who was at one time an unbeliever, is thus affected.  Surely the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá will ever be an inspiration and an example to the friends all over the world.
The burial took place on Tuesday, 29 November, the procession starting at 9 a.m.  Sir Herbert Samuel, the High Commissioner of Palestine, accompanied by the high officials, arrived in a special train, starting from Jerusalem at midnight, in order to attend the funeral in time.  The funeral, as described in an Arabic paper12 at Haifa, was miraculous and beyond description.  All the people of Haifa attended the funeral and all were bowed in grief and wept all the way from his house to the Tomb on Mount Carmel.
When the casket containing the holy body of 'Abdu'l-Bahá was placed before
page 293
the house, the air was rent with the weeping of the family and friends.  The friends then all advanced toward the casket and kissed, with flowing tears, the shawl laid over the casket.  When this was over the funeral proceeded with pomp and greatness.  Men of all creeds and societies, as well as the great men of the city, without exception, were present and followed the big train of the High Commissioner.
When they reached the Tomb, after walking for one hour and twenty-five minutes, the casket was laid down before the Tomb of the Báb, until the rest of the procession reached that place.  Then about nine speakers spoke spontaneously, declaring his greatness and comparing it with the prophets of the past, and testifying to the sorrow and the great loss which they felt in his passing.  The speakers were all strangers-not Bahá'ís, as the Bahá'ís could only weep on this occasion.  They were representatives of all the religions of the country, Muslims, Christians, Jews, et al. and poets of different creeds.  Some of the speakers were heads of their religion.  I cannot describe how I was affected by the reading of these ovations.  Sir Herbert Samuel, after listening to the last speaker, who was a Jew and who spoke in French, shook hands with him as he had understood what he said.  The others had spoken in Arabic.  When this was over Sir Herbert Samuel, holding his hat in his left hand, knelt down and kissed, for the last time, the shawl that covered the casket, and all those who were present did the same.  The burial took place in the central room where the Master used to sit.
As soon as the friends here received the news of the ascension of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, telegrams were sent to Haifa, and Joseph Hebeqa, whom the Bahá'ís of Alexandria sent to Haifa, was the first of the friends to arrive from abroad.  Upon his return he related to us the details mentioned in this letter.  Joseph Hebeqa had not seen 'Abdu'l-Bahá before, although he had made preparations to visit him the week previous to his ascension, but, unfortunately he was detained.  He believed in the Cause during the time of the war, and we tried to perfect his faith.  The ascension of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his presence in Haifa, on this great occasion, confirmed his faith and has had a wonderful effect upon him.  After his visit of five days in Haifa, he was quite another being, and returned to us like a flaming torch, and in his confirmation he has found real consolation.
Since we received the news of the passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, we have been
page 294
animated by a strong spirit, which, during the life-time of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, seemed to be chained, but has now been let loose, and we feel a strong spirit urging and inspiring us to greater service.  And, too, we have a great secret in our hearts, of which the people of the world have as yet been deprived.  I do not mean to convey the impression that we are in a better spiritual condition since the departure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but I mean to say that we feel more keenly His spiritual power and inspiration, and it is overwhelming, and His Holy Spirit is now acting through the firm believers.
The friends in Cairo kept openly three days of mourning, when the learned people of the Muslims and other notables, as well as Persians, who are not believers, called to console the friends.
In Alexandria we had continual meetings at my home for several days, during which time one of the violators knocked at my door, desiring to see me and to console me in my grief for the passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, it being an Eastern custom for the people to call, on the occasion of death, and offer their sympathy.  The friends who happened to be present at that moment all agreed not to allow him in and insisted that word be sent to him that we would not see him.  This, at first, might seem strange, to turn a man away from the door on such an occasion, but any believer who has ever heard of the violators and of their attitude toward the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and who knows the trouble they tried to make for him, will certainly uphold our action in thus turning a violator away.  A few days after this we had a telegram from the family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in reply to all cables sent from Egypt to Haifa, which read thus:
"The beauty of the Beloved disappeared and the hearts are melted by this great calamity.  Our only hope is to raise the banner of the Covenant, and with all righteousness, unity and servitude we serve His sublime threshold."
A few days later the great violator addressed the Bahá'ís through the columns of the Arabic newspapers, calling upon them to follow him, according, as he stated, to the will of Bahá'u'lláh, pretending, in his call, that although he had been separated from his brother by God's destiny, yet the filial relationship and hearty sensations were strong in his heart, and he tried outwardly to show sorrow for the passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  One of his only two followers in Alexandria confirmed his call on a page of the same paper, but the House of
page 295
Spirituality in Cairo replied and contested both statements, stating in effect that this violator is not recognized at all by the Bahá'ís, and since he has violated the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh for thirty years, he is not considered among the Bahá'ís, and has not the authority to speak in their behalf, for all the affairs of the Bahá'ís are now directed by the Houses of Spirituality, all over the world, whose members are elected and who will come under the control of the House of Justice, and they are the only representatives of the Bahá'ís.  And this violator is not a Bahá'í in the true sense of the word and according to the dictates of Bahá'u'lláh.  This reply was given especially for the benefit of the public, to give them correct information and to prove to them that the violators are not Bahá'ís and were cut off thirty years ago by their disobedience to the command of Bahá'u'lláh to turn, after His departure, to the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and by their harmful actions to the Cause.
The reply produced the desired effect and we, individually, spread it among the inquirers and thus enlarged the circle of its influence.
Again they wrote an objection to our reply and published it, but after the reply given by the House of Spirituality none of the friends have entered, or will they enter, into any controversy with them through the newspapers.  The people must understand and know by their own knowledge that the violators are unfaithful and weak in their reasoning, and this is plainly evident in the writings of the violators.
We, the friends in the East, hope that the friends in the West will give a blow to the violators by totally avoiding them and never associating with them or accepting them in their meetings, because they are the only kind of people who could harm the Cause more than all other people put together, for the simple reason that their aim is to break the unity of the friends by putting doubt in the hearts of those who are not firm in their faith.
We are hoping to hear from the West that which will add confirmation to the friends in the East.  This is what is expected from America.  We all pray that Bahá'u'lláh may confirm us in raising high the banner of the Covenant at all times and in all regions.
Faithfully in the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh,
Muhammad Sa'íd Adham,
Teacher 'Abbásiyya School, Alexandria, Egypt.


XII:19, 2 March 1922
page 301
Letter from 'Abbás Adib to Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí
Damascus, Syria,
4 January 1922.
My dear uncle,
Oh! what a calamity has befallen us by the departure of our beloved Master.  Several times in meetings during the year, up to the time I left Haifa, he said:  "I have completed my work and duties in this world and what is left will be done by the friends.  I want to rest.  The actions of the náqidín and others so injure me that if my heart be pierced with a spear it will be much easier to bear than these actions.  Suppressed sorrows will kill a man.  If one should relate his sorrows to a friend,
page 302
the sorrow will be removed from his heart and he will be at ease; but if one shall keep it and does not speak it to others it will work in him, make him sick and kill him.  You do not know what is happening.  I do not say anything."  Such words were uttered by 'Abdu'l-Bahá many times.
A certain person was such a great stumbling block in the path of the Beloved that he said to Bahádur:  "My soul has reached my lips because of his deeds ...."  He continued:  "I want to rest for six months.  The doctor does not allow me to work, read and write."
To begin with he dismissed Mírzá Azízu'lláh Bahádur and Ibn-i-Asdaq, the latter to stay in Shíráz under the care of Mírzá Báqir Khán; next he dismissed Shaykh Muhammad 'Alí, his son and Siyyid Mustafá of Rangoon.  A little later he dismissed Jinábí Fádil and Subhí, the latter was told that when his services would be needed he would be called-meantime to go and teach in Persia.  Not a pilgrim was left in Haifa.
On Friday night, 18 November, the Beloved had a cold.  That morning Mírzá 'Abu'l-Hasan Afnán dismissed his servant and said he was going away.  He wrote a supplication to the Beloved.  Then the Afnán went to the seashore, about two hours walk, and threw himself into the sea.  Some fisherman nearby took him out and notified the authorities.  'Abdu'l-Bahá sent his automobile.  I went with the Afnáns and Dr Lutfu'lláh and helped to bring his body home.  The next day when we carried the body from his house, the Beloved approached and assisted in carrying, the casket to the carriage.  I am sure the Master told him about His departure from this world and that because of it he threw himself into the sea.
Another incident:  Ten days before this a Bahá'í Turk named Dr Sulaymán Rafat Bey, whose home is in Beirut, came to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The day after his arrival a telegram came stating his brother had died.  The shock overcame him.  'Abdu'l-Bahá opened the windows, washed the face and head, rubbed the chest of the doctor, gave him some water mixed with spices, patted him on the back, embraced him, and consoled him.  During this talk the Beloved said:  "Don't be sorry.  My departure from this world is very near."  (Dr Bey did not mention this until after the departure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, not quite a fortnight later.)  The next morning the Master sent him to Beirut with Ahmad Bey Yazdí and Munavvar Khánum ...
On the morning of 26 November, I left for Damascus.  I arrived that night and communicated the news of the good health of the Master to the friends and my father.  On Sunday, at a meeting, we spoke of it.  Monday noon a telegram came saying the Beloved had departed from this world. ...
I heard that on Sunday, the 27th, 'Abdu'l-Bahá sat in the garden under the apricot tree.  He called Ismá'íl Áqá and asked for some fruit-tangerines, sweet lemons and oranges.  He ate some and distributed the others among the friends who were present.  He rubbed his hands together and said:  "Finished, finished, finished."  He arose and went to his room.  That night he did not go to the meeting.  At midnight he awoke, called the Greatest Holy Leaf, said good-bye to all and at 1:30 a.m.  ascended to the Kingdom of Abhá.  Immediately, everybody was notified and the weeping and wailing commenced.
A few days after the ascension, a Muslim said to one of the Afnáns:  "Sometime ago, His Excellency, saw me and inquired about my work.  He paid me a few pounds and said, 'This will be the last time we meet.'  It did not occur to me that he meant he would ascend so soon ..."
As to the náqidín, they surely gloated over the ascension of our Beloved.  Muhammad 'Alí came to the house of mourning.  Khusraw saw him and told him to wait for permission.  The Great-
page 303
est Holy Leaf sent this word to them by Rúhí Effendi:  "Our Beloved does not allow and does not like you to come in, and if you come in you will add to our sorrows."  He went away and wrote an article in the newspapers calling the Bahá'ís to turn to him, quoting extracts from the Covenant of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  The Bahá'í Assembly of Cairo answered him, and exposed his claim to leadership. ...
Kindly give my love and greetings to Zynat Khánum, Parvyn and Hubúr Khánum. Shaykh 'Abdu'r-Rahmán-i-al Hindí is present and greets you.
Your sincere nephew,
'Abbás Adib


XII:19, 2 March 1922
page 307
Requiem Tablet revealed for Lillian Kappes
Tablet Maghfarat (Requiem) for the maid-servant of God, Miss Kappes-Upon her be Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
O my God and my Helper!
Verily, I place my forehead in the dust and raise my hands toward heaven and call upon Thee with a heart whose waves surge in Thy remembrance, and with tears that are falling in Thy love, and a spirit which is moving by Thy goodness and favour and a soul that is increasingly thirsty, seeking the wine of Thy forgiveness and Thy pardon, and we are saying:
O Forgiver of sins and O faithful Bestower of pardon and Protector from misfortune and Compassionate to the creatures!  Verily Thy maid-servant was a stranger, alone, a unique one in Thy path; and far from her native land in the path of Thy love she was certainly approaching toward Thee and was seeking the glad-tidings of Thy favour and goodness.  Then the hearts of Thy friends became saddened by her death.13  The tears of the pure and of Thy chosen ones were flowing and from the hearts of Thy servants wailing and weeping arose, sympathy was established for Thy maid-servant and consolation for Thy friends whose hearts were burning and whose tears were flowing.  The hot fire of sorrow was aflame within their vitals; they were weeping as a mother weeps for her dead child.  In this way they were seeking consolation and favour for her, with burning hearts and with breasts filled with the marks of grief for this great calamity.
O my God!  Grant to her life immeasurable, excellence and companionship with the birds of Paradise in the eternal world.  She is leaving this unreal world and arriving at Thy Holy Presence in the world eternal and she has become purified from the stain of sins, liberated and saved from the world.  O God illumine her face with the light of Thy mercy and make fragrant her nostrils with the perfume of the garden of Thy unity and make her eyes radiant by beholding the Divine Face of her Lord, and appoint for her a place in the true station of nearness by Thy mercy; and open the gates unto her, putting her in communication with the Holy Leaves among the maid-servants and companions and aid her to reach the Kingdom of Mysteries in radiant Light.
Verily Thou art the Forgiver and the Kind!  Verily Thou art the Lord of Mercy and Forgiveness!
She entered in unto Thee and into the path of Thy favour and goodness.  I ask of Thee to bestow upon her a benevolent station; to accept her efforts and grant to her signs of favour and a station of kindness and pardon.  O God! she had faith in Thee and in Thy Verses and was attracted by Thy fragrances and was reading Thy Words and Verses and giving the glad-tidings of the dawn of Thy pure unity and she called upon Thy Name in Thy regions.
She left her native land and remained apart from family ties and brothers, enduring every trouble and distress and was content to accept the bitterness of separation for the love of teaching the children.  And with enthusiasm educating the girls she lived in distant cities during long years and periods and was patient in every difficulty.  Morn and eve she was endeavouring to clarify the intellects of the innocent children of good families and failed not in giving out daily that which was required of her in that distant region.  She gave her hand unwearied every night and
page 308
day and at evening-tide and morning-tide to the service of the friends and taught the little ones who drew nourishment from the breast of Thy favour until her body gave out, her strength failed, her body disintegrated and her form dissolved.  Then, supported by Thy favour, she returned to Thee, eager to behold Thee near by.  Verily Thou art the sublime Refuge, the Faithful, All-sufficient, the Dear and Illustrious, the Most Supreme!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Revealed in Haifa, 1 July 1921.  Translated in Tihrán, Persia, 12 October 1921.


XII:19, 2 March 1922
page 313
Dawn prayer of Bahá'u'lláh
"O God, verily I ask Thee, by Thy Name, by which Thou hast heard the call of the passionate lovers, the cry of the yearning ones, the loud voices of the near ones, the tender sigh of the sincere, and ordained the hope of the desiring ones and granted them what they desired by Thy Bounty and Benevolence, and by the Names by which the Sea of Forgiveness rolled before Thy Face and the Cloud of Generosity showered upon Thy sincere servants, to write (appoint) for him who advances toward Thee and fasts by Thine order, the recompense of those who speak not save by Thy permission and who give up what they have in Thy Cause and Love.
"Thou seest me, O my God, holding to Thy Name, the Holy, the Shining, the Precious, the Greatest, the Highest, the Abhá!  And clinging to the Train of Thy Robe, which is being grasped by all those of the life to come and the present one."
Portion, of the prayer to be used at dawn, revealed by Bahá'u'lláh.


XIII:1, 21 March 1922
page 6
The New Day
Do you know in what day you are living?  Do you realize in what dispensation you are alive?  Have you not read in the Holy Scriptures that at the consummation of the ages there shall appear a day which is the sun of all the past days?
This is the day in which the Lord of Hosts has come down from heaven on the clouds of glory!  This is the day in which the inhabitants of all the world shall enter under the tent of the Word of God.  This is the day whose real sovereign is His Highness, The Almighty.  This is the day when the East and the West shall embrace each other like unto two lovers.  This is the day in which war and contention shall be forgotten.  This is the day in which nations and governments will enter into an eternal bond of amity and conciliation.  This century is the fulfilment of the Promised Century.
The East shall become illumined, the West perfumed and the children of men shall enter beneath the all-embracing canopy of the oneness of the world of humanity.
The foundation of divine religion is love, affinity and concord.  Praise God that this cycle is the period of illumination!  Minds have made great progress; intelligences have been unfolded; the means of unity and agreement are brought about; communication between the races of men is rapidly established.  Now is the time that all of us may embrace the law of peace and treat each other with honesty and straightforwardness.  Let the religious prejudices be wiped away.  Let the law of racial supremacy be discontinued.  Let political expediencies be done away with.  Let the love of country
page 7
be superseded by the love of the world.  Let us all deal with each other with infinite kindness.  We are all the servants at the one Divine Threshold.  We are all receiving the rays of truth from the same Sun of Reality.  We must all believe in all of the prophets.  We must all acknowledge the divine authority of all the heavenly books.  We must wash our hearts free of all human prejudices.  We must serve God.  We must propagate the oneness of the realm of humanity.  We must be the cause of the appearance of the perfections of the world of man.  We must not be like the beasts of prey.  We must not allow carnage and bloodshed.  We must regard the blood of man as sacred.  We must not shed the holy blood of man for the paltry earth.  We must all agree upon one fundamental principle-that principle is the oneness of the kingdom of humanity.
In this age, Bahá'u'lláh has breathed the Holy Spirit into the dead body of the world.  Consequently every weak soul is strengthened by these fresh divine out-breathings.  Every poor man will become rich, every darkened soul will become illumined, every ignorant one will become wise, because the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are descending like unto torrents.  A new era of divine consciousness is upon us.  The world of humanity is going through a process of transformation.  A new race is being developed.  The thoughts of human brotherhood are permeating all regions.  New ideals are stirring the depths of hearts and a new spirit of universal consciousness is being profoundly felt by all men.
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá


XIII:1, 21 March 1922
page 9
The Bahá'í Revelation-the religious need of the time
Charles Mason Remey
In this day the religious formulae of the past-superstitions, creeds and dogmas-no longer ease the conscience of the world nor bring satisfaction to the mind of the individual adherent of these systems of thought.  Humanity is in need of a spiritual power and knowledge with which to meet and solve the problems and conditions of this new day and age.  Hence, the general changing and unsettled condition of the religious world which is causing a large and an increasing number of progressive people to quit thinking within the prescribed limits of the religious thought of the past, and to search diligently for those universal fundamental truths of the spiritual realm of life and being, the knowledge of which truths is the religion of God.
The Bahá'í Movement offers to the world an all-inclusive, universal, spiritual teaching, so broad that people of all races and of all creeds find place therein.  It is essentially a religious movement, a spiritual teaching, free from the limitations of sect and "-ism", and constructive in its building upon the true faith of the individual and upon the pure teachings of the past, thus increasing love and devotion to God and creating within each soul the desire to manifest the light of these divine attributes through brotherly service to one's fellowmen.
Object
The object of the Bahá'í Revelation is the religious unification [uniting] of all people.  The teaching has come into the world to fulfil all divine teaching of the past.  It stands as the goal toward which truth has always worked, through its appearance in the prophets sent unto various peoples of the past ages, and it is the beginning of that age of divine enlightenment and peace, the coming of which has been the theme of all revelations of the past-The Kingdom of God on earth.  Thus the Bahá'í Movement establishes the universal religion which is the foundation of inter-religious, inter-racial and international brotherhood and peace.  It offers to mankind a practical basis of unity, one which is in direct line with the great world needs of this age, and it is paving the way for the great universal civilization which will evolve as people of all religions, races and nations
page 10
unite both spiritually and materially into one great world people.
Divine Revelation
Man, being finite, can not comprehend the essence of the Infinite God, which is beyond any and all human conception.  However, through the manifestation of the Spirit of God or "The Word", that power which has spoken to the world through the prophets and chosen ones of the past, humanity learns of God, knows His attributes, and is quickened by His Spirit.
Mankind needs and seeks spiritual guidance.  This divine guidance has come to humanity through the instrumentality of the Manifestations of God or the prophets or Revealers of Truth.  These chosen souls have been the founders of the great religious world-movements.  They have manifested the Spirit of God to the people of the world, and through them men have known God and have become quickened by the life of The Kingdom.
The oneness of the Manifestations
Though the personalities of the prophets differed, yet the divine power which spoke through each one was the same in spirit and reality.  Each prophet revealed God and the law of the divine kingdom in proportion to the needs of the age to which he ministered, and in terms and parables familiar to its people.
In their purity, all religious teachings are in perfect accord; all teach the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man.  Human differences, imaginations and superstitions have been the causes of religious division, dissension and disintegration, but true spirituality has ever been the source and mainspring of man's unity in religion and advancement in civilization.  Each of the great world civilizations has had its conception and birth in a spiritually active religion, and the downfall of civilizations has been brought about by spiritually lifeless religions, shrouded in forms and in superstitions.
The new Revelation
As the former ages have had certain spiritual or religious needs, so this present and coming universal age, upon the threshold of which the world now stands, has its own peculiar spiritual and religious needs.  The world is now ready for the spiritual unity and harmony of its people.  The universal religion now comes, in order that the universal civilization may be realized.
The prophets of the past foresaw this latter-day religious need, and they also foresaw the coming of two great teachers and prophets who would minister to the whole world, and fulfil the Covenant of God in establishing the universal religion or the Kingdom upon earth.
The Hebrew prophets dwelt at length upon the coming of the "Ancient of Days", and the glory of His epoch; Jesus, the Christ, spoke many times of His second coming and the establishment of His Father's Kingdom upon earth; the prophet Muhammad taught that the Mihdí would come, followed by the Manifestation of God who would establish the Kingdom; Zoroaster taught of the triumph of light over darkness, of truth over ignorance, and His followers expect the Promised One whom they call Sháh-Bahrám, to accomplish this victory; Gautama, the Buddha, foretold the coming of the great fifth Buddha, who would bring enlightenment to all the world; the Hindu holy books mention another incarnation of Krishna, or the Divine Spirit, whose mission would be universal enlightenment; while the poets and prose writers of all times have depicted the beauty and the perfection of the utopian or millennial age, to be realized when The Great World Master appeared on earth to establish God's rule among the nations.  In reality all testified to One who was to come.  These
page 11
promises of the prophets of old are now realized in the coming of the Bahá'í Revelators and in the movement which they have established, the people of the various religions find the fulfilment of the sacred teachings of the past, and also the solution of the great latter day problem of religious unity.  The Bahá'í teaching confirms and completes all religious teachings which have gone before, and offers a practical philosophy which meets the present day spiritual needs of humanity.
The Báb
On 23 May 1844, there arose in Shíráz, Persia, a young man, 'Alí Muhammad by name, who declared Himself to be the Báb, or the forerunner of "He whom God would manifest"-a great teacher, who was soon to appear with manifest signs of divine power, through whose teachings the religious unity of all peoples would be accomplished.
Through his purity of soul and spiritual wisdom the Báb drew unto himself many followers who in turn promulgated his doctrines with so much fervour that within a short time many believed and joined his ranks.
The Báb was met early in his career of teaching by great opposition on the part of the Muslim clergy and, at their instigation, was placed under military surveillance.  In spite of this he continued his teaching, exhorting the people to holiness and sanctity of living, in order that they might be fitted to meet the Promised One, shortly to appear, and to become as mirrors which would reflect his spiritual perfection.  Thus the first two years of his ministry passed, at the end of which time, he was seized, by the order of the opposing clerical authorities, and thrust into prison.
The Báb's imprisonment lasted four years, during which time he taught his followers through letters and epistles smuggled by faithful friends past the guards of the prison.  This was followed by a trial in which he was condemned to death upon the charge of heresy.  With one of his followers, he suffered martyrdom in the cause of Truth in the city of Tabríz, Persia, on 9 July 1850.
The mission of the Báb being that of precursor of "He whom God would manifest", the institutions and ordinances which he established were for the time being only.  With the appearance of the Promised One, the followers (Bábís), were commanded to turn their faces unto him, when he, who was to come, would reveal his teachings, divine laws and ordinances, thus completing the foundation of the Kingdom on earth.
The Báb was not alone in being persecuted by the Muslims, for with his martyrdom came upon his followers troubles of the most dire nature.  Over twenty thousand of these willingly gave up property, family and life rather than deny or recant their faith.  As late as 1901, there were one hundred and seventy souls martyred in this Cause at one time in Persia.
Bahá'u'lláh
During the days of the Báb's ministry, while his cause was being promulgated by his followers throughout Persia, there were many believers who never met with him in person.  Among these was Bahá'u'lláh, a young man of noble family, who warmly espoused the Cause, publicly upholding and teaching it in Tihrán.  In 1852, shortly after the Báb's martyrdom, when the persecution of the Bábís was at its height, Bahá'u'lláh, with others of the new faith, was imprisoned in Tihrán, and later on with a number of the followers was sent in exile to Baghdád in 'Iráq, Arabia.
During the exile in Baghdád Bahá'-
page 12
u'lláh, through his teachings and spiritual insight, gradually brought calmness and assurance to the believers.  As the movement gained strength the clerical authorities began to show fear.  This led to an international arrangement made between the Turkish and Persian government by which Bahá'u'lláh with a band of the followers was ordered to a more distant exile in Constantinople.  In April, 1863, on the eve of his departure from the land of 'Iráq, Bahá'u'lláh declared himself to be the One whose coming the Báb had foretold, "He whom God would manifest".
From Constantinople the exiles were sent to Adrianople, where they remained until 1868, when they were finally sent to the fortified town of 'Akká, a penal colony on the Mediterranean just north of Mt. Carmel in Syria.  There, in the land of Carmel, where "the coming of the Lord" in this latter day had been foretold by the prophets, Bahá'u'lláh lived and taught; many travelling from great distances to receive instructions from him, while others received teaching through his writings.
With the coming of Bahá'u'lláh the mission and teachings of the Báb were fulfilled and completed; so from that time on the movement became known as the Bahá'í Movement, and the believers, hitherto called Bábís, became known as Bahá'ís, this new name being a derivative of Bahá.  In the spring of 1892 the mission of Bahá'u'lláh being finished, he passed quietly from this world.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
During Bahá'u'lláh's ministry his revelation was complete, yet his cause was not explained nor established in the world in general.  To this end he, in his testament, as well as in various parts of his teachings, commanded his followers upon his departure to turn their faces toward his eldest son, 'Abbás, more widely known by this title, "'Abdu'l-Bahá", whom he had chosen as their spiritual guide:  "The Centre of The Covenant" of God to the people of the world, the expounder of his teachings, the one who would establish this great movement and to explain and demonstrate it before the world-the one upon whose shoulders his mantle would fall.
'Abdu'l-Bahá was born in Tihrán, Persia, on the 23 May 1844, the day upon which the Báb first declared his message.  During all the trials and vicissitudes of the mission of Bahá'u'lláh, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was at his right hand promulgating his cause and serving his followers.  He was the first of all to recognize Bahá'u'lláh as the Promised One and to voice the mighty message of the coming mission of the "Lord of the ages".
'Abdu'l-Bahá wished to be known as the servant of humanity.  He sought no higher station than this, yet when one understands all that this means one realizes the combination of humility and exaltation which it implies.  He made but one claim for himself, as to his spiritual station, that of service in the path of God.  He signed himself "'Abdu'l-Bahá 'Abbás", which, being translated, is "'Abbás, the Servant of Bahá".  'Abdu'l-Bahá was acknowledged by the Bahá'ís as their spiritual leader, and the one to be emulated in the teaching of this great faith in the world.  He, through his example, brought the spiritual life of Bahá'u'lláh within the reach of his followers, the Bahá'ís.  He was the first fruit of the consummation of God's Latter Day promise to the world, and he was the centre from which the light was radiated to the world; therefore he in his mission lived and exemplified his title of "The Centre of the Covenant".
'Abdu'l-Bahá's life was one of active service to humanity.  There was no element in the daily life of this world too small to receive his attention.  The great motive power manifesting through him was not of this world but was of
page 13
God.  He worked to serve God, yet by serving God he served mankind.  From his early childhood until his 64th year he was an exile and a prisoner; yet the light of his life and teachings reached and penetrated to the far corners of the earth.  For forty years 'Abdu'l-Bahá was a prisoner in the fortress of 'Akká-held there by the Sultán of Turkey for no other reason than that his teaching was bringing enlightenment and freedom of thought to all who came within the radius of its power.  With the fall of the old despotic regime of Turkish government and the establishment of a constitutional rule, which occurred in the summer of 1908, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was liberated from prison, and became free to come and go as he willed.  During the summer and fall of 1911 he visited England and France, where he spent some months in teaching; and in 1912 he spent eight months in America, travelling and teaching from coast to coast, visiting many cities and towns where he had friends and where there were those to listen to his explanations of religious questions and seeking that vitalizing spiritual force which so characterizes his presence.
Upon this tour, in both America and Europe, the pulpits of many Christian churches of various sects and cults, institutions of learning, and the platforms of philosophical and humanitarian movements of various types sought 'Abdu'l-Bahá and welcomed his message of the Oneness of the World of Humanity.  The people who heard him were rejoiced by the spirit which he radiated, and those who came within the field of his spiritual love and power, were strengthened and inspired.
'Abdu'l-Bahá had the power of really penetrating the souls of men, of understanding the needs of each individual soul, and of ministering to them in the most beneficial manner.  He was the spiritual physician of humanity.  Many beautiful and touching incidents are related in the East of the way in which, through long suffering and kindness, he won the hearts of those who, because of their prejudices, formerly were his enemies.  Caring for the sick and protecting the oppressed formed a large part of his daily duties.  One of the titles applied to him in the Orient was "father of the poor".
'Abdu'l-Bahá's power was that of love.  In going into his presence something within one's soul seemed to respond to his soul.  Thus a spiritual bond was made which was most far-reaching, for it was of the nature of divine love and always remained with one.  Through his life and example, he taught people the life and the way of the Kingdom.  He had a message for every one, and as one met and contacted with him in spirit it was as if a new force were added to one's nature.  The power of the love of God was brought very close to those who came in contact with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
From many countries people of different beliefs went to 'Abdu'l-Bahá to receive spiritual help, and upon leaving him returned to their various homes to share with others the joy and assurance of his spiritual message and to follow in his path of service.  He was the perfect life, and as the people contacted with him they found in him the centre of this spiritual light of this new day and age.  From that centre was flowing the regenerative Bahá'í spirit, which is making things anew, re-establishing religion, reviving faith in God and uniting humanity in the one universal brotherhood of God's kingdom.
On 28 November 1921, his glorious service finished in the body, he ascended to the Kingdom of Abhá, leaving a Will and Testament-The Book of the Covenant-in which he appointed his grandson, Shoghi Effendi Rabbání
page 14
Guardian of the Cause and Head of the House of Justice, a body of men to be chosen from the believers because of their spiritual qualifications for wisdom and divine knowledge.
Growth of the movement
The movement under the Báb was practically confined to the Islamic countries.  During the ministry of Bahá'u'lláh the message was taken to various other countries of the Orient and under the ministration of 'Abdu'l-Bahá it spread around the world.  There are not only centres of Bahá'í teaching in China, Japan, Burma, India, Persia, Turkistán, Caucasia, the Turkish countries and in Egypt, but there are strong Bahá'í centres in Prance, Germany, England and throughout the United States and Canada.  This growth has been a comparatively slow but steady one.  It is not limited by religious nor racial conditions, which is proven by the many heterogeneous elements which this Cause is assimilating and fusing into one element, which is the world type of man.
The universal principles of Truth, which the Bahá'í Movement is teaching, are already clearly seen in the way in which this teaching appeals to people of all religions, races and nationalities.  When a soul becomes touched by the Bahá'í Spirit he becomes a citizen of the world, quite freed from the limitations of his former environment, while his social and religious prejudices inherited from forebears and environment are changed into a desire to do something toward world brotherhood through tangible service to his fellowmen.  In the Bahá'í meetings-notably those in the East-one sees Christians, Jews, Muslims, Zoroastrians, Hindus and Buddhists mingling as brothers and eating at the same tables.  It has been the writer's privilege to travel extensively and to attend many such reunions.  He has spent much time in the Oriental countries and has seen the spiritual blending of the Orient and Occident, which process is being brought about by the love and devotion of the Bahá'ís, one for another.  These people are really demonstrating the power of divine love, for with them it is so powerful as to overcome all religious and racial antipathy and is producing real brotherhood and peace.


XIII:2, 9 April 1922
page 36
The Bahá'í Revelation-the religious need of the time (continued)
Charles Mason Remey
(continued from page 14)
The Bahá'í Writings
The collective writings of the Báb are known as The Bayán.14  These treat chiefly of the coming of Bahá'u'lláh, containing exhortations to the people calling them to purify themselves and prepare to meet the Promised One that they might be fitted to serve him.
Bahá'u'lláh wrote many treatises in the form of books and epistles in which He demonstrates the oneness of the spirit of all of the former religious teachings; also treating of the present teachings in its relation to the religions of the past.  A number of these writings were in reply to special questions asked by men of learning and were therefore written from various points of thought, Muslim, Jewish, Christian, etc.
The writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are many and are chiefly in the form of letters or Tablets, explanatory of the spirit and the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  In 'Abdu'l-Bahá's life of service to humanity is his method of teaching, through which means he gives life, vigour and a penetrative force to his words.  His verbal teaching, much of which is reported and circulated in manuscript and in printed form, consists of explanations, given to various inquirers, regarding the Cause and its doctrines, together with exhortations to the followers and certain principles and truths, the pursuance of which is conducive to the best secular as well as spiritual welfare of mankind.
Eternal life
Eternal life is the state of soul of spiritually quickened man.  All souls exist as entities after the separation from the material body.  However, from the spiritual standpoint, this mere existence is not "life".  Only those souls who are awake to the glory of God can be said to be divinely awake and alive and of the life eternal.  This spiritual awakening is from God.  It is His gift and greatest bounty to man.  By virtue of the truth and spirit revealed to humanity through the Prophets and Manifestations, man's soul is awakened from slumber, and, though in the world, yet he lives in a higher realm from which he receives divine strength and force.
According to the Bahá'í teaching heaven and hell are conditions of the soul.  The soul which lives in God is in that divine state called heaven, while one not yet awakened to the glory of God is in a state of darkness, or hell.  The coming of the Kingdom of Heaven on earth has been the one theme of Christ and the Prophets.  All have spoken of this epoch in different terminology, but in reality they all spoke of the one great age of divine enlightenment-a time when faith should replace unbelief, and when divine knowledge should replace ignorance and superstition, and the Bahá'í Cause teaches that the world is now in the early dawn of that new day and age.
Social reforms, laws and ordinances
In addition to the purely spiritual teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, he ordered certain changes in the manners and customs of people, through the observance of which the world in general will be helped both materially and spiritually.  He exhorts the Bahá'ís to be tolerant, and in no way to separate themselves from other people, nor denounce those of other beliefs.  All men are free to believe as they wish, but all are advised to unite in faith and to lay aside the prejudices and superstitions of past ages.
page 37
Warfare should be abolished and international questions settled by arbitration.  A universal language is favoured as a means of bringing people together in unity.  Legislation should be representative.  The Bahá'ís should be peaceful and law-abiding citizens.  Their thought should be humanitarian before all else.  Faith without works is not acceptable.  One's worship should be supplemented by a pure and useful life in the world.  Men and women should marry.  Asceticism is discouraged.  Monogamy is taught.  Harshness and hatred are to be overcome by gentleness and love.  Man should not use intoxicants as a beverage.  Opium and kindred drug habits are denounced as is also gambling.
Bahá'u'lláh forbade mendacity, slavery, cruelty to animals and many other abuses which our western civilization has already remedied, so it is hardly necessary here to mention them.  The following of these ordinances is already producing its good effect in the many Bahá'í centres throughout the world, and good fruits are coming therefrom.
Mashriqu'l-Adhkár
Prayer supplemented by a pure and useful life in this world form the elements of true worship.  Faith without works is not acceptable.  Every man should have an occupation which conduces to the welfare of humanity, the diligent pursuance of which is in itself an act of worship.
In this Cause there is no priesthood nor clergy.  Each soul approaches God in prayer without sacred rite nor ceremony.  Temples open to all people of all religions are to be provided for reading, meditation and prayer.  These are to be surrounded by hospices, hospitals, asylums, schools, universities, etc., the whole group of buildings to be known as a "Mashriqu'l-Adhkár", which translated from the Arabic literally means "The dawning point of the mentions (of God)".  In these institutions is symbolized both the spiritual worship and the humanitarian service as taught by Bahá'u'lláh.
A few years ago in the city of Ishqábád in Russian Turkistán a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár was built.  At present the Bahá'ís throughout the world are uniting in the work of building the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár in America, which is to be erected upon the shore of Lake Michigan near the city of Chicago.
Of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár to be built in Chicago, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has spoken as follows:
"Now the day has arrived in which the edifice of God, the divine sanctuary, the spiritual temple, shall be erected in America.
"The accessories of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár are numerous.  Among them are the school for orphans, the great college for the higher arts, hospital, home for the cripples and hospice.  The doors of these places are to be opened to all sects-no differentiations.  When these accessories are completed, and, by God's help and aid, the departments fully systematized, it will be proved that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is to human society a great bounty and a great blessing.
"In brief, through the unlimited bounties of God, I am hopeful that the beloved ones of God in America may be aided and confirmed in founding this mighty and solid foundation and gradually annex thereto its accessories.
"When these institutions, college, hospital, hospice and establishments for the incurables, university for the study of higher sciences and giving post-graduate courses, and other philanthropic buildings are built, its doors will be opened to all the nations and religions.  There will be absolutely no line of demarcation drawn.  Its charities will be dispensed irrespective of colour or race.  Its gates will be flung wide open to mankind; prejudice toward none, love for all.  The central building will be devoted to the purpose of prayer and worship.  Thus, for the first time, religion will become harmonized with science, and
page 38
science will be the handmaid of religion, both showering their material and spiritual gifts on all humanity.  In this way the people will be lifted out of the quagmires of slothfulness and bigotry."
Education
Through a broad and liberal education along scientific, material and intellectual lines, balanced by a knowledge of man's moral and spiritual duties and relation to God, the Bahá'ís believe that the superstitions of the past will disappear and with them the prejudice and ignorance which have always made for man's limitation.  The Bahá'í Movement stands strongly for the freedom and education of women, even going so far as to teach that it is more necessary for parents to educate their girls than their boys.  Women being the mothers and the early teachers of the children of the race, it is more necessary that they be educated than men.  In the Orient, where the condition of ignorance and general degradation among the women is so widespread, the condition of the Bahá'í women is so far superior to that of the women in general in the countries in which they live as to be one of the clear demonstrations of the awakening of these peoples and their freedom from their former religious institutions which denied educational advantages to women.  Particularly in the Muslim countries are the women denied culture and education by the established rule of theology, but now through the dawn of this new day and age all these limitations of the past are disappearing before the light of Truth.
Peace
Religious differences have been the chief cause of warfare, while religious sympathy and understanding have always made for peace and prosperity.  Prior to the beginning of the Bahá'í Movement, little or nothing was being taught or written about peace, arbitration, universal language, suffrage nor other universal institutions.  During the past three-quarters of a century, however, the world has awakened to the necessity for all of these institutions for which the Bahá'í Cause stands; and now the most enlightened people are realizing that the lack of spiritual or religious understanding, with the accompanying lack of moral perception, is the real cause of our human ills and the cataclysmic conditions through which the world is now passing.
While Bahá'u'lláh's teaching was ahead of the world of his day, the world of today is realizing more and more the value of that teaching.  The supply and the demand are now meeting, from which better conditions will result.
The Bahá'ís believe in a federation of all the nations, both large and small, and the establishment of a world parliament for the judicial settlement of international disputes.  In treating of this matter of peace between the nations, 'Abdu'l-Bahá says:
"A tribunal will be under the power of God, and under the protection of all men.  Each one must obey the decisions of this tribunal, in order to arrange the difficulties of every nation.
"About fifty years ago in the Book of Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh commanded the people to establish the Universal Peace and summoned all the nations to the Divine Banquet of international arbitration so that the questions of boundaries, of national honour and property and of vital interests between nations might be decided by an arbitral court of justice.
"Remember these precepts were given more than half a century ago-at that moment no one spoke of universal peace-nor of any of these principles, but Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed them to all the sovereigns of the world. ...  They are the spirit of this age; the light of this age; they are the well-being of this age."
Science and religion
The imaginations and superstitions of the religious systems of the past, are against common sense and science, for these are but the thoughts of men of the
page 39
ages.  The universal basic spiritual truths of religion, upon the contrary, accord with science.  When men understand the true principles of religion no conflict will be found between them and the material sciences.
Evolution of man
According to the Bahá'í teaching, spirit or life force is of five kinds:  vegetable, animal, human, and divinely spiritual life of the soul, and the Infinite unknowable Spirit of God.  Man was created man, a species apart and above the vegetable and animal conditions.  Through the spiritual influences of the Manifestations of God's Word, or the Prophets, man becomes characterized by the divinely spiritual qualities, and adds to his human nature the spiritual nature, or the life eternal.
The Bahá'ís see true religion itself as a scientific fact, for to them the true philosophy of religion is the statement or the science of the higher spiritual laws of that plain of being known as The Kingdom of God.  Through the working of these divine laws and a knowledge thereof, humanity arises from the state of spiritual ignorance which characterizes the so-called "natural" or savage man, and becomes quickened by the process of the higher life.  Thus, through a knowledge of the basic principles of religion, and through the wisdom which the living spirit of religion instils into the soul, the true religious man is freed from the thraldom of ignorance and superstition, which imprisons the soul, and he finds ample opportunity and scope for the development of the highest and noblest virtues peculiar to that plain of being known as The Kingdom of God.
Oriental-Occidental unity
One of the greatest obstacles to overcome before universal brotherhood and peace can come is the natural lack of confidence and understanding between the Oriental and Occidental peoples.  The Orient has always been the source of the world's spiritual inspiration, while in the Occident has appeared the fruition of this inspiration in the form of a highly evolved civilization.  Through the Bahá'í teachings this chasm between the East and the West is bridged, and for the first time in history Oriental and Occidental are meeting on a common ground of sympathy and understanding.
Economic questions
Co-operation is the basic principle upon which all institutions should be founded.  The co-operation of all for the good of all.  Laws should be so regulated that it will be impossible for one man to enrich himself at the expense of another.  Through the proper adjustment of political and commercial relations between individuals and nations all will live in harmony, happiness and in plenty.
The House of Justice
Bahá'u'lláh arranged for the guidance and the welfare of his cause by appointing 'Abdu'l-Bahá "The Centre of His Covenant", to whom the people turned for guidance.  And 'Abdu'l-Bahá arranged that after him the people should turn to Shoghi Effendi, whom he appointed "The Guardian of the Cause and Head of the House of Justice"-a body of men chosen from the believers because of their spiritual qualifications for wisdom and divine knowledge.
The business affairs of the Bahá'í Movement will then be conducted by these assemblies of consultation.  In addition to the local Houses of Justice, there will be a general assembly of consultation composed of representatives from all parts of the world.  This will be known as "The Universal House of Justice".
The method of teaching
The teaching is given without money and without price.  Teachers are usually self-supporting, giving their time and services, the recompense for which is the joy and satisfaction of serving in the cause of Truth, but in rare instances
page 45
persons of means have been known to provide travelling and living expenses enabling certain speakers and teachers for a time to extend the field of their labours.  Teaching consists of first living the principles of the Cause in one's inner life and then speaking to others.  Unless a teacher lives the life of which he preaches his words will have no effect upon the hearts of others.
All Bahá'ís are servants of the Cause and are supposed to promulgate the teachings, each in his own sphere-each working according to his ability.  Some are able to go about through the world teaching and preaching, while others carry on their religious work in conjunction with their material affairs.  The Bahá'ís in no way form a close[d] sect or cult.  They do not separate themselves from other people.  Their work is ever outward and in the world where they are diffusing spiritual knowledge and serving humanity.
In the following words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá he instructs teachers how they should teach:
"The intention of the teacher must be pure, his heart independent, his spirit attracted, his thought at peace, his resolution firm, his magnanimity exalted and in the love of God a shining torch.
"Should he become as such, his sanctified breath will even affect the rock; otherwise there will be no result whatsoever.  As long as a soul is not perfected, how can he efface the defects of others?
"Unless he is detached from aught else save God, how can he teach severance to others?"


XIII:1, 21 March 1922
page 18
The days of Divine Springtime
A talk by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Shrine of the Báb, Mount Carmel, at a feast given by Áqá Díyá'u'lláh of Ishqábád, 28 November 1920.
... the Master said:  "Springtime is the time of buds and blossoms and flowers, but the season of fruits is after the springtime.  The days of the Manifestations of God are like the season of the spring.
"In the time of the Manifestation Moses, the buds and flowers which appeared were turned into fruits some time after Moses' departure.  Similarly in the days of His Holiness Christ, his words and utterances produced fruit afterwards.  At the time of His Holiness the Prophet, (Muhammad) he planted the tree of Túbá with his own hand, but that tree also produced fruits afterward.
"Now we hope that the fruits of man's existence will appear in these days (or seasons).  In the Qur'án it says:  'Before long God will bring forth people whom He loves and who love Him.'  When they said to His Holiness Christ:  'Your followers do not behave according to dis-
page 19
cipline and rules.'  His Holiness Christ answered them:  'These are the days of marriage and not the days of discipline.  The days of rules and discipline will come afterwards.'  This means that the fruit of the trees will be gathered in summer and not in the spring.  There were some people who appeared at Khurásán, and in reality revived the religion of His Holiness the Prophet, otherwise his religion would have been utterly destroyed.  These people were souls who were severed from all desire save service.
"Now also our hope is that in these days the Holy Cause may yield its fruits.  That the friends of God may become so self-sacrificing that the Cause may bring forth much fruit.  The days are passing, before long a whirlwind of dust will place everybody in their graves.
"As long as we are living we must be all the time thinking of the promotion of the Word of God, so that the heavenly life may illumine all the world and may change this world of dust into paradise and change this wilderness of thorns into a rose garden."
Translated by Mírzá 'Azízu'lláh S. Bahádur.  Copied by E. H. S., Tihrán, Persia.


XIII:1, 21 March 1922
page 26
A glimpse of 'Abdu'l-Bahá as the Gardener
Pasadena, California.
15 November 1921.
My Dear Miss Buikema,
I have not forgotten that you accorded to me the great privilege of seeding you some words regarding our recent visit to the Master, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that you might use them perhaps to advantage in the Star of the West.  I am so happy to be able to share with the friends the wonderful; impressions which we received there and to send you, for publication, the accompanying photograph.  This picture was taken in the garden surrounding the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh at Bahjí on the morning of 1 May of this year for Mr French and me.
We had spent two days in the presence of our Master in Bahjí, accompanying him at morn and evening into the Shrine to pray and supplicate at the Holy Threshold.  On this particular morning, Sunday, the first of May, as we passed through that beautiful garden brilliant with early spring flowers, I begged the Master to grant us the favour of pausing for a photograph in order that I might bring back to the friends in America this glimpse of him as he stood among his flowers.  How near it brings him!  To me, no picture15 which we have ever had is quite so typical.  Truly, he is the Gardener, and in the hearts he is planting only seeds of Love.
During the three days which we passed in his presence at Bahjí, the strongest impressions which I received all bore upon the necessity of Obedience and Reverence.  It may be too much to expect that all will be equally reverent, for that only comes with a deeper perception of the station of the Centre of the Covenant.  But even those who are attracted superficially to the Bahá'í teachings must recognize the justice of the commands of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and that all human and spiritual welfare must lie in obedience to those commands.
I asked one question which will be of interest to all the Assemblies and the answer an infallible guide.  It had distressed me greatly that, in some places I had seen and known of, extraneous matter was being introduced into the regular Bahá'í meetings until these meetings had lost their spiritual illumination, growing thereby into intellectual pastimes rather than into an humble and reverent attitude toward the Words of the Messengers.  When I mentioned these things to the Master he looked up with that inimitable smile and said:  "Ask them where in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh they find these things."
The answer was so sweet, so courteous and so final that I leave it with the friends to ponder upon, hoping that it may bind us more and more closely together in pursuance of the Light which is to be found only in the pure teachings.
Faithfully yours in the service of the Centre of the Covenant of God.
Nellie S. French.


XIII:5, August 1922
page 101
Happiness from the Bahá'í viewpoint
Martha Root
Reprinted by permission from the June issue of the Boycroft magazine.
The Bahá'í Cause now encircling the world is a movement for unity of religions, universal peace and a universal language.  Its founders, the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá have brought to humanity a message which transforms for its followers this earth world into a spiritual Rose-garden.
To present to you some of their thoughts on happiness is the purpose of this compilation of quotations.  Asked the ultimate goal of a human life 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied that it assuredly was not to eat, nor to sleep, nor to dress, nor to repose on the couch of negligence.  Rather it is to find one's way to eternity and understand the divine signs; to receive wisdom from the Lord of Lords and to move steadily forward like a great sea.
Speaking with a group of friends he said:  "To see the joy of divine gladness on your faces is the cause of my happiness for when I see you happy, I am happy also.  The divine messengers come to bring joy to this earth, for this is the planet of tribulation and torment and the mission of the great masters is to turn men away from these anxieties and to infuse life with infinite joy.
"When the divine message is understood all troubles will vanish.  Shadows disappear when the universal lamp is lighted, for whosoever becomes illumined thereby no longer knows grief.  He realizes that his stay on this planet is temporary and that life is eternal.  When once he has found reality he will no longer retreat into darkness.
"Reflect on the tribulations the divine messengers endure in each age-exile, prison, the cross, decapitation; yet they ever remain tranquil.
"Behold the apostles of Christ!  They had many trials.  The friends of Bahá'u'lláh in Persia have undergone unspeakable calamities.  Their possessions were seized and destroyed, their children captured, their lives sacrificed; yet at the hour of martyrdom they danced with joy, for they were completely detached from the life of this world.  Trials have never prevented men from knowing the happiness of the beyond.  Nay, rather, this is the path."
page 102
"The world needs more happiness and illumination.  The star of happiness is in every heart, we must remove the clouds so that it may twinkle radiantly.  Happiness is an eternal condition.  When it is once established, man will ascend to the supreme heights of bliss.  A truly happy man will not be subject to the shifting eventualities of time.  Like unto an eternal king he will sit upon the throne of fixed realities.  He will be impervious to outward, changing circumstances, and through his deeds and actions impart happiness to others.  A Bahá'í must be happy, for the blessings of God are bestowed upon him.
"Every soul must strive to impart to mankind that joy and happiness the nature of which is permanent."
__________
"This is the day of happiness.  In no time of any manifestation was there the cause for happiness as now.  A happy state brings special blessings.  When the mind is depressed the blessings are not received."
__________
"Laugh and talk, don't lament and talk.  Laugh and speak."
__________
"Laughter is caused by the slackening or relaxation of the nerves.  It is an ideal condition and not physical.  Laughter is the visible effect of an invisible cause.  For example, happiness and misery are super-sensuous phenomena.  One cannot hear them with his ears or touch them with his hands.  Happiness is a spiritual state.  But happiness is caused either by looking at a beautiful picture, or witnessing a delectable panorama, or associating with the person whom you love, or listening to a good voice, or solving an intellectual problem.  All these are the motives of happiness, but the real cause is spiritual."
__________
"What is necessary is divine joy.  Divine happiness is the speaker of the heart. ...  The soul of man must be happy no matter where he is.  One must attain to that condition of inward beatitude and peace; then outward circumstances will not alter his spiritual calmness and joyfulness."
__________
From 1868 to 1908 'Abdu'l-Bahá was a prisoner in 'Akká, Palestine.  His teachings of universal peace and brotherhood were too far in advance of his time.  But as he said, "Every morning when I awoke I praised God there was another day to serve Him in His prison.  Every night I thanked Him that He had permitted me to serve His Kingdom one more day in His prison.  I was in a Turkish prison forty years but every day was a day of perfect joy."
__________
"My happiness," he said, "comes from the Kingdom of Abhá!  My joy is from the Delectable Paradise!  My health is gained through the rays of the sun of Reality.  My spirituality descends from the world of lights.  My enkindlement is obtained from the Fire of the Love of God.  My attraction is vouchsafed from the mainspring of all truths.  My life is maintained through the fraternization of all mankind, the progress of the Cause of God and the unity of the friends."


XIII:5, August 1922
page 101
A fortune that bestows eternal happiness
Knowledge, purity of thought and love
Talks given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá on Mount Carmel to a group of college students during their summer vacation.  Recorded and translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
"True happiness is found in purity of thought.  Whenever I look into your radiant faces I am made most happy because your thoughts are pure.  You must live in such a manner that whenever I think of you I may be made joyous; whenever I behold your shining countenances I may become happy; whenever I hear good news of you my heart may be filled with delight.
page 103
"Man must so live that he may become beloved in the sight of God, beloved in the estimation of the righteous ones and beloved and praised by the people.  When he reaches this station the feast of eternal happiness is spread before him.  His heart is serene and composed because he finds himself accepted at the threshold of His Highness, the One.  His soul is in the utmost felicity and bliss even if he be surrounded by mountains of tests and difficulties.  He will be like unto a sea on the surface of which one may see huge white waves, but in its deeps it is calm, unruffled and undisturbed.  If he trusts his happiness to worldly objects and fluctuating conditions he is doomed to disappointment.  Should he gain a fortune and anchor his happiness to that he may hypnotize himself into a state of so-called joy for a few days, and then that very fortune will become a mill-stone around his neck, the cause of his worry and melancholy.
"But if he lives in accordance with the good-pleasure of the Lord he will be favoured at the court of the Almighty.  He will be drawn nigh unto the throne of Majesty.  He will be respected by all mankind and loved and honoured by the believers.  This fortune bestows eternal happiness.  The tree of this fortune is ever green.  The autumnal wind does not sear its leaves nor does the frost of winter rob it of its perennial freshness.  This is a happiness which is not followed by any misery but is always a source of gratefulness and blessedness.  The most great, peerless gift of God to the world of humanity is happiness born of love-they are the twin sisters of the superman; one is the complement of the other.  Everything that contributes to the sum total of this human happiness is a gift on the part of God, and that thing which does not add to the aggregate of this ideal felicity must be, little by little or all at once eliminated.
"Therefore, it becomes self-evident that the first bestowal to the world of humanity is happiness, that kind of happiness which is unalterable and ideal.  If, by happiness physical enjoyment of material things is meant then the ferocious wolf is made happy because he kills the innocent lamb and satisfies his hunger for a few hours.  This is not happiness.  Happiness is a psychological condition created in brain, mind and heart, the effect of which works out from the centre to the circumference.  For example, after many days and nights of reflection the philosopher unravels a seemingly unsolvable problem.  As the result, a wave of supreme happiness surges through his being.  The philanthropist comes to the assistance of thousands of half-starved, half-clothed, afflicted people of a nation.  In his deed he wins much contentment.  An engineer spans a large river with a suspension or cantilever bridge, or an architect makes the design of an edifice.  Each finds true enjoyment in his work.
"It is related that Násiri Túsí was well versed in the science of astronomy.  Many nights he walked on the roof of his house watching the stars.  Whenever he happened to discover the true position of a planet or to locate the place of a constellation he became so enraptured with the joy of a new idea that he would get up and dance and sing, saying:  'Where are the kings?  Where are the monarchs of the earth?  What is true felicity?  Let them come and see what real happiness means, what ideal bliss really is.'
"It is for this reason that Bahá'u'lláh in all his Tablets has made it incumbent upon all to study sciences and arts, encouraging everyone in the acquirement of learning and a liberal education for the eternal happiness of mankind lies in these (things).
"Praise be to God that for the present you are all well and happy!  I have met you and associated with you this hour.  You are living on the slope of Mount Carmel, are near to the Holy Tomb of the Báb, inhaling the fragrance of its rose garden, are looking at the unique
page 104
panorama and are enjoying the gifts of heaven.  This is the ultimate hope of the lovers of truth, to be in the neighbourhood of the Most Eminent Mercy!"
__________
In the evening there was a large meeting.  When the Master entered the room he looked over the bright faces of the Bahá'í students and exclaimed with delighted heart:
"God be praised!  How wonderful are these students!  I am looking forward with great hope to their future.  In reality they are beneath the shade of the Blessed Perfection and they are being animated with the spirit of the Holy Land.  For this reason they are superior to many other students.  Their mettle will become known in the future.  They are now in the process of refining; when they come out of the crucible their brightness will become manifest.  The word of God is the refining which will polish them, suffering them to become as tested gold.
"Every single assured and firm believer will consider himself the servant of all the friends of God, nay, rather, the servant of the world of humanity.  The honour of man depends upon this.  The everlasting glory of mankind lies in this.  For this reason his holiness Christ says:  'The last shall be first; the least among you in the Kingdom is the greatest.'  Whosoever desires to walk in the path of the Kingdom, so that he may reach the court of the Almighty, he must be a true servant.  The path of God cannot be compared with the paths of men.  The humbler man is in the path of God the more exalted is he; the greater his meekness and submissiveness the more beloved is he; the more he is surrounded with tests and trials the vaster the tranquillity and composure of his spirit.  Nay, rather, in the path of God humility is honour, trouble is rest, affliction is bestowal, poverty is wealth, indigence is sovereignty and lowliness is nobility.  Truly, I say, whosoever is the real servant of the believers of God is their assistant and helper.  We must all walk in this divine path."


XIII:5, August 1922
page 104
The Writings of Bahá'u'lláh
Horace Holley
As taught us all in the schools, literature tends to become either a classification according to its form-the novel, drama, essay and poem-or according to its historical continuity.  Both methods externalize the reality of literature away from our personal experience.  We are inclined to know the author by his work rather than the work by its author.  We are inclined even to glorify the work at the expense of the creator from whom it came.  The student unconsciously begins to conceive the poem, say, as being the poet refined to the utmost degree, the poet translated temporarily and accidentally to a higher condition, much as though the man were to his own production just as the oyster is to its pearl.  Since the poem exists above and beyond our own capacity, we feel that it exists above and beyond the human character of the poet.  But any person who has ever actually felt the creative impulse within his own consciousness realizes that the work produced, even at its best, renders only a fraction of the significance that impulse contained.  During creation, the author feels an infinite resource opened within him, a resource which the work created never satisfactorily records.  The work itself, then, represents merely the author's power of responding to the impulse, not the capacity of the impulse itself.  In other words, literature is the record of what the infinite impulse has been able to effect in and through certain limited lives.
page 105
This distinction between creative impulse and sensitive instrument is vital.  Every literary work is like a telescope which can be held up to the eye at either end.  According as we experience literature through the limitations of minds to respond, or the unlimited capacity and appeal of the creative impulse itself, we are led to believe that writing, like a tower, can never rise above a certain height, or we believe that, like a fine musical instrument, its power grows forever with the touch of the hand by which it is played.
It is actually as though the individuals capable of producing literature were themselves each one a definite number of notes on the entire, indefinite scale of the instrument.  Authors differ vastly as to what notes sound through their work, and what notes remain silent.  In one we have aesthetic sensitiveness without moral discrimination; in another able logic without feeling of beauty.  The whole of literature is far from being literature as a whole.  The whole of literature, historically, is nothing more than a long series of limited parts, and literature as a whole can no more be imagined from grouping together these parts than could a sound man be imagined by one who knew only different forms of disease.
But to externalize literature is to miss even the ability to perceive this fact.  It is to miss even the true humility characteristic of the creator, by which the creator tends to belittle poems even while glorifying poetry.  The creative mind is well aware that if somehow the silent notes could be made to sound, all that literature has done in the past would seem by comparison nothing.  He is impatient of his own work, knowing that its excellence is merely the power of commanding a small field.  But without knowing what literature is in its essence, our reading continually goes astray.  We travel the road of experience, but we travel backward.  We scale the creative power by what has actually been created, rather than what has been created by the creative power; which is to measure the heavens by the highest visible hill.
Thus it seems to most students that Shakespeare is and must be supreme in literature for all time.  Shakespeare, it seems, sounded all the available notes on the keyboard of life.  One by one he brings every type of man and woman upon the stage, where one by one their inmost secrets are exquisitely, completely told.  The gesture of good and evil, power and weakness alike he rendered in all its deepest significance.
But with the decay of personal experience, the very power of estimating values passes away.  We expect nothing beyond Shakespeare, because we stand within the superficial completeness of the work and not within the profound incompleteness of the man.  We do not even follow Shakespeare himself to his own consummation, his own self-estimation as a mind transcended by power unencompassed on every hand.  But I recall that his old age, in the person of Prospero, deliberately broke the wand by which all those dear enchantments had been raised.  Even about this mind the darkness fell.  Master of motives within the range of his own experience, Shakespeare at last paid reverent homage to motives outside its ken.  Breaking the magician's wand seems, to the lesser mind, merely as though the poet withdrew from poetry in the weakness of old age; but to the mind capable of standing beside Shakespeare himself the broken wand signifies nothing less than his recognition that all human drama had begun to crumble away with the perception of a greater and a beyond.  Triumph is the glory of the lesser mind; humility is the glory of the great.  Shakespeare's old age cannot be taken as the guttered candle, the empty lamp-it was the opening of a weary student's window at dawn, when the rising sun shames the candle to his own gladdened eyes.  Shakespeare knew
page 146
within himself the silent notes, and where he could not invoke masterful music he left the instrument to less sensitive hands.
Not in quantity of work, not even in what the world calls quality, therefore, does the essence of literature lie.  Shakespeare surpassed other men merely by combining in himself certain qualities other men share among themselves.  There is no one element in Shakespeare not manifested since his time by many poets.  He possessed no notes beyond our capacity severally to possess.  But where all minds are dumb, he is dumb.  What all men seek, he also sought, with an inquiry more poignant, more insistently phrased.  The essence of literature consists in its power to reveal.  Shakespeare's revelation is the perplexity of human life when actuated by motives resident in the personal, the outer layer of thought.
So much it is desirable to say by way of approach to the writings of Bahá'u'lláh.  By minds limited to the customary closed circle of experience, these writings can be read over and over without understanding.  The supreme benefit of reading them, indeed, is to learn merely how they are to be read.  A lifetime might well be spent pondering them word by word, if real understanding came pure and full at the end.  For in Bahá'u'lláh we have a mind whose response to the infinite creative impulse begins precisely where the "literary" effort stops.  Apparently, Bahá'u'lláh has not that masterful intimacy with "life" itself for the revelation of a new dominion over the generations.  The truth is, however, that Bahá'u'lláh taking "life" for granted, stands outside "life" itself for the revelation of a new motive.  He does not sound the Shakespearian notes, because he sounds the notes that have been silent in us all.  No comparison between Bahá'u'lláh and other writers is possible.  The closest similarity to Bahá'u'lláh's writings are the utterances of Jesus.  By those who love them Jesus' utterances are not comparable with literary productions.  They are absorbed into the yearning spirit as from a source deeply hidden within, that the spirit may be re-actuated and transformed.
But there is a subtle distinction even here.  Jesus' message was that to the infinite power surrounding our consciousness an infinite response can be made.  Jesus made himself the Way for human experience to travel-every painful furlong of the Way, from the birth of the spiritual child into the indifferent flesh to the resurrection of the spiritual man at the hands of the flesh furious at its own threatened subordination.  Thus the words of Jesus are the manifestation of the Christ-the power of men to respond infinitely to the infinite power of God.  But Bahá'u'lláh's message does not repeat the message of Christ-it completes that message.  Whereas Christ planted his words as seeds within the soul, Bahá'u'lláh's writing fertilizes those seeds as by the shining of the sun in spring.  He manifests the surrounding, controlling Infinite of universal spirit just as Christ manifested the response on the part of consciousness to that Infinite control.  Christ was Religion working up to its source through the painful experience of reluctant humanity; Bahá'u'lláh is Religion self-subsistent, unchanging, the beginning as well as the end of the Way.
Thus in the writings of Bahá'u'lláh there is an influence not dwelling elsewhere in literature or philosophy.  That influence permeates and proceeds from a literary and philosophic form, but the power of the influence well-nigh shatters the cup of speech.  Here is Truth, in distinction to facts; Reality in distinction to logic; immovable Power in distinction to emotion.  Our categories and our systems fail to contain this writing, as engineers would fail to dam the sea.  Our critical faculties even prevent us from approaching its outpouring effect, for its very purpose is to create
page 107
new faculties as standards in the mind.  It is a Mystery, but not secretive; a Revelation, but not argumentative; Love, but not enticement.  In numberless passages the flame burns visibly forth and the wine intoxicates.  It is a spiritual geography for the searching mind, a home for the heart outworn.  But alas, even in the abundance of mid-spring, the dead tree stands unmoved.
"Revelation is a fire from which proceed two effects:  It creates the flame of love within the faithful, but produces the cold of heedlessness within those that hate."
"The proof of the sun is its light which shines forth encompassing the world; and the evidence of the shower is the bounty renewing the earth at its fall."


XIII:5, August 1922
page 107
The sun of reality becomes truly manifest with the passing of the cloud of the body
A Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Great Scholar, 'Abu'l-Fadl.
When in 1892 Bahá'u'lláh after fifty years of glorious teaching in Persia, in Baghdád, in the most great prison of 'Akká, passed into the unseen world his disciples were prostrate, even the saintly 'Abu'l-Fadl.  It seemed as if nothing could console them.  'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote twice to 'Abu'l-Fadl but he was so grief stricken that he sent no answer.  The spiritual radiance reflected from the mirror of Bahá'u'lláh's earthly temple was so life-giving even 'Abu'l-Fadl was desolate when the physical mirror was broken.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote him the following marvellous tablet.  It has a deep significance for all his friends today.  Editor.
__________
O thou father, mother and brother of Fadá'il (virtues)!
It has been a long time since the fragrance of significances from the rose-gardens of the heart of that fountainhead of knowledge has reached the nostrils of the longing ones or the flame of the heat of the vibrations of yearning have reached the meadows of the hearts of the true friends.  Although at the commencement of the burning anguish caused by the separation of the Beloved of the Horizons (Bahá'u'lláh), a letter was sent, yet the acknowledgement of its receipt has not appeared, nor has the sign of acceptance been made manifest.  It is evident that this distress and depression are due to the severity of the grief for the separation of the Beloved of the Horizons and this inactivity is due to the effect of the great calamity.  But the lights of the Sun of Reality have no setting, nor have the waves of the great sea any quiet or calm.  The bounties of the Abhá, the most glorious Kingdom are uninterrupted and the splendours of the Empyrean heaven are permanent.  The clouds of the April of bestowals are overflowing and the artery of the love of God is pulsating in the body of the world.  The confirmations of the most glorious, Abhá companion are incessant and the grace of his holiness the Most High is continuous.  Though that most luminous Sun has set in the lower horizon, which is the horizon of beings, yet it has risen and shone forth from the highest horizon.  Though, until the present time, the eyes of mankind on account of veils have been deprived, blinded and covered, now that veil which in every dispensation and age has been the cause of denial is being removed.  For in all dispensations when the Manifestation of His Oneness ap-
page 108
peared from the horizon of beings the greatest excuse of the people was this:  they said, "Thou art only a human being like us." ...  "He is only a human being like you."  In short, they considered the appearance of those Manifestations of Oneness the cause of falsehood and ground for rejection.  But after the ascension (of the Manifestation) they became believers and assured, for then they did not regard the physical, human person; therefore, they became aware of the power, evidences and proofs of God.  They became the manifestation of, "Thy sight today is iron-sight."
Thus, should you kindly reflect upon this it would become evident that in all ages the ascendancy of the Word of God has been after the ascension of the Dawning Points of Lights to the supreme horizon.  For the people, naturally, are more inclined and more attracted to believe in the invisible.  In all times, in the day of the Manifestation they rejected him, evinced pride, found excuses, and in the abode of superstitions they built their nests.  When they looked upon Him as a person who had appeared in a human temple and physically resembled them they became veiled from the divine bounty.
When the eyes of Satan looked upon the body of dust and the earthly talisman of his holiness Adam he became deprived of sight and blind to that boundless treasure which is the greatest bestowal of God and the noblest human characteristic.  "Thou hast created me from fire and thou hast created him (Adam) from clay," he said.  Now, the purpose is this, that in the Book of Íqán (Bahá'u'lláh) considered the human temple as a cloud and the Divine Reality as the sun;-"and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory."  He interpreted and explained the verse from the Gospel in the foregoing manner.
Therefore, now is the time to become ablaze and aflame.  This is the hour of proclamation and attraction.  This is the hour for you, like unto the sea, to be surging; like unto the clouds, to be flashing with lightning; like unto the dove of the garden of faithfulness to break forth into songs and melodies; like unto the birds of the heaven of eternity to be ever singing and warbling.
O, ye nightingales of the rose-garden of guidance!  O, ye messengers16 of the home of bounty!  It is the time of rejoicing and acclamation.  It is the hour of songs and anthems.  Sit ye not with hearts distressed and sleep ye not with hearts broken.  Soar ye to the apex of sublimity.  Start ye singing in the rose-garden of guidance.  Seek ye the abode of the Merciful and the melodies of the rose-garden of His Holiness, the Beneficent.
If in this Divine spring-time ye do not sing in what season will ye sing and become familiar and well-acquainted with the roses of significances?
O thou 'Abu'l-Fadl.  Where is the blaze of the fire of thy tree?  Where is the effulgence of the light of thy love?  Where are the waves of thy knowledge?  Where is the breeze of the rose-garden of thy assurance?  Where are thy melodies which cheer the ears?  Where are thy fragrances which perfume the nostrils of the people of the world?  Where is the attraction of thy heart?  Where is the expansion (dilation) of thy breast?  Where are the glad-tidings of thy spirit?  Where is the glow of thy fire and where is the flame of thy torch?  Forsake inactivity even though in these days inertness from the graveness of anxieties is commended and praised.  Then come out from the corner of oblivion; seek the summit of acceptance; soar in this Abhá, most glorious space; enter into the rose-garden of the Cause of God by thy arising to diffuse the
page 109
fragrances of His sanctity and to elevate His word with such rising that the pillars of polytheism will totter, the hearts heedless to the Lord of Lords will tremble, the centres of knowledge will be uplifted, the standards of assurance will be spread abroad, the banners of explanation will wave and the sails of life will be hoisted in the ark of safety on the sea of creation.
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.


XIII:5, August 1922
page 109
Meditation and its effect upon conduct
Mary Hanford Ford
The human being is a creature who is ordinarily governed by impulses which rise within him comparatively unwatched and unguarded.  If he feels happy or melancholy, angry or patient, his action reflects the condition's of his being, and if one reproach him for faults which might disappear with a little self-control he is apt to reply-"Well, I am made that way, and I can't help it."
He is only conscious of the physical impulse which prompts a certain nervous expression and he has not yet learned that there are two of him and that if he would become acquainted with his greater self, the soul or reality, life might be very different, and the disagreeable elements of his temperamental man could easily disappear.
There is a wave of psychological study passing over the world which has many excellent results and which is causing many persons who never gave much thought previously to the existence of the "inner man" to perceive something of this interesting individual, who presently becomes vastly more important as an element of personality than is indicated by that mysterious and baffling term, "the subconscious".  The subconscious is in fact the true self, the soul, or as 'Abdu'l-Bahá often calls it, the reality.
There is no part of his wonderful teaching which is more clear and convincing than that relating to the soul in its contact with life, the body, and God.  As we follow it we realize that the soul is the avenue through which we know God and receive the Holy Spirit, that it is always a distinct entity becoming more luminous and powerful as we turn to God and control the animal man in us.  It often surrounds us like an aureole in our earlier stages of development, but as we progress, and reflect its light, it leaves us free even in our waking hours and carries on its own activity.  The subconscious, in other words, is the true thinker and revealer in us, through whom words become real prayer, and impulse becomes intuition and veritable guidance.
But how is this possible?  We ask anxiously, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá's reply is, through prayer, meditation and deeds, because without the deeds which express the results of meditation and prayer these remain only delightful experiences of the soul, and do not transform life.  'Abdu'l-Bahá says in the great address on meditation in the Paris Talks-the one who cannot meditate is still in the animal kingdom!
Many persons are not aware of the difference between concentration and meditation, which is very positive.  Through concentration we enter the psychic or mental world, we hypnotize, we develop the personal will.  But in meditation we enter the Abhá kingdom by temporarily eliminating the personal will.  In this state we penetrate the consciousness of the reality, and can receive the divine commands through the Holy
page 110
Spirit, and if we are strong enough to obey the commands we receive our impulses are overcome, we obtain eternal life and become rational beings instead of merely animals who walk erect.
Many believers are only mental believers.  They have never taken time to abstract themselves from the turmoil of the outer life and hear the "still, small voice" which is only audible to the inner ear.  Bahá'u'lláh says:  "We speak one word and by it we intend one and seventy meanings-each one of them we can explain."
These one and seventy meanings are not simply shades of mental and spiritual interpretation but often facts of life which we can only understand through prayer and self-control.  The individual who is no longer capable of anger, envy, ambition or revenge, who does not feel such impulses, who is made ill by indulgence in gossip and scandal, and therefore no longer tolerates them has entered the spiritual path and is beginning to know eternal life.
These are some of the results of real meditation, when it is sought as a means of purifying the outer man, not merely as a spiritual pleasure and intoxication.  The latter is delightful but not educating, and people who form the habit of meditation without deeds sometimes fall into serious nervous trouble.  Meditation lights a fire within us which demands fuel, the fuel of growth and thoughtful activity, and if we refuse to feed it with these, it is liable to burn up its own oven!  And this, of course, is not particularly agreeable or advantageous for the oven.  However, 'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "The test of existence is motion.  An object which has in itself the power of motion lives; if motion is withheld growth ceases.  That is mortality. ...  If the reality of man is not confirmed by the divine power there is no doubt whatsoever but that it will stop along the path of human progress, and after its stop there will be a fall."
The confirmation of this divine power comes to us through meditation and its resultant deeds.  And one sees the great advance daily among those who are seeking spiritual truth.  Sight comes into the eyes, happiness to the heart, and though outward circumstances may not be what one desires, the light and happiness are not diminished.  Such light and such happiness are from within and are not dependent upon exterior happenings.



XIII:5, August 1922
page 113
Can we change human nature?17
A Bahá'í conversion.
All programmes for world peace, for economic right and justice depend for their execution upon the creation of a new heart in our race of human beings, "the establishment of the Kingdom of God first in the hearts of men and then upon earth."  To educate this new humanity is the supreme need of the century.  Because Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá are able to train that new type of men and women by the divine elixir of their life and teachings they have made this century radiant with the hope of a new world-society in which dwelleth righteousness.
An instance of this power is recorded by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb when he was living at Haifa.  It is an account of the conversion of a Russian highwayman who visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Holy Land in 1914.  "Before he accepted this revelation he was well-known in all those parts as a dangerous character whose very name struck terror to the heart of the members of the community.  It may be an exaggeration, but I have heard from several persons that, in his former whirlwind desperado life he killed about two hundred people.  Physically he is a giant, tall and powerfully built.  Well, when this man embraced the Bahá'í Cause and learned of its lofty and spiritual principles a most miracu-
page 114
lous transformation occurred in his life.  It was more than miraculous.  We have no word for it in the dictionary.  Whereas formerly he was ferocious, he became meek.  He was a wolf; now he became more gentle than a lamb.  He was a satan; he became a radiant angel.  He walked among the people as a standing miracle.  They looked at him, rubbed their eyes, and could not believe.  Mystery of mysteries!  Wonder of wonders!  What divine alchemy had changed the base metal of this man into pure gold!
"By and by they came around and asked the reason-not from him, but from others.  He did not have to open his mouth to teach the Cause.  This singular and instantaneous transformation of his character was the greatest act of teaching.  Then all of a sudden it dawned upon the minds of many citizens of the town what a truly marvellous miracle had transpired in their midst.  They became Bahá'ís, and today are the most wonderful body of true, noble Bahá'ís in all Russia. ...  Let the agnostics and materialists who deny the religion of God and negate the good it has rendered study the psychology of this case!"
Speaking of such spiritual rebirth, 'Abdu'l-Bahá once said:  "Ordinarily a moral teacher strives day and night until a person abandons one of his many evil attributes.  But as soon as the guidance of God and the faith of God dawn from the horizon of a heart that person is a changed man.  All his evil characteristics are transformed into praise-worthy attributes.  Whereas formerly he was a coward, he becomes courageous.  Whereas before he was debased, he becomes sanctified and holy.  Even in his intelligence, his knowledge, his sagacity and his mentality he is a different man."


XIII:5, August 1922
page 116
A visit to Bahjí by the way of the sea
"The spell of the Holy Land."
Nellie S. French
As I sit at my desk wondering which of the deep and lasting impressions of our visit to the Master, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, during the days of the Ridván in May, 1921, I should commit to paper for the good pleasure of the friends, I am so insistently drawn to the incidents of the journey and the arrival in the presence of the Master, that I must begin with those at least, and let the rest take care of itself.  Not a thousandth part of what is really implanted and constantly growing in my mind and heart could possibly find expression, for there are no words with which to make those impressions clear to the reader, nor indeed was I myself conscious of all that I was imbibing, nor of the doors of knowledge which were being opened before my face at the time.
Five days of patient waiting in Haifa, for the time when we might go had given us a beautiful insight into the loving service and devotion of the friends there, and were preparation for the crowning event of our pilgrimage.  We took the little train at about five-thirty on Friday afternoon, occupying a railway carriage of the most primitive type in company with what might have been a party of labouring "commuters" returning to 'Akká for the night.  The train travelled slowly, but as it ran along the very edge of the Mediterranean the cool sea breeze soon rose, to the discomfort of the other travellers, and one by one the wooden shutters of the car were raised, entirely shutting out all light and air and the fresh sweet breeze of the sea.
We seemed not to be of special interest to our travelling companions, though I confess I was intensely interested in them, to know what they knew of the wonderful story of the ages which had been, and was being, enacted in their very midst, and I would have given much to know the language of the country.  We reached the station of 'Akká, a short distance from the city walls, just as the sun was sending its last horizontal rays across the sea, bathing the valley of "Achor" in its last crimson rays.  Starting on foot toward Bahjí, where 'Abdu'l-Bahá was sojourning, in the little house adjoining the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh, we left the calm blue sea beating its ceaseless rhythm on the sandy beach behind us, and turned our faces toward the plain.  Never shall I forget the sight which lay before us!  A light shower had fallen, leaving everything fresh and green, with that indescribable fragrance which only a shower in a dry land can produce.  Over the Lebanon mountains there lay the last glow of the sunset and far away in the distance here and there curls of smoke rose to indicate some little hamlet gathering its people for the evening meal.  All was still and a peace reigned quite unbroken save for the sound of the waves which grew fainter and fainter as we progressed.  Then out of the twilight came little groups of pilgrims, Persians for the most part, who had travelled for weeks to send a few hours in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  They were very quiet, walking with the even, slow gait of those eastern peoples:  each carrying a small bundle of belongings.  They seemed not even to be conversing as we approached them, but when we were near they stopped, and I saw on the faces of those men a joy not of this world, as they greeted us in the name of God, and seemed to impart to us without words the sense of fellowship and sympathy.
Our path led further and further into the country, past the distant walls of the prison town, over the battlefield of the ages.  It was rather a rough road in places, and the hour and the still of the night coming down kept each one wrapt in his own thoughts.  Finally in the distance there appeared a light; it seemed
page 117
a long way off, for we were forced to go slowly and to pick our way, but night had entirely closed in when we came to a stop before the low doorway of a little one-story house.  One of the young men, secretary of the Master, came out to meet and greet us, and for a few tense moments we were kept waiting in the hall of the house before we were told that we might enter the Master's room.
How strange it seems to be trying to express the sensations of those moments!  I cannot say what was most deeply impressed on me at the time for everything was so new and I was so utterly unprepared for all that I was to see, even though I had listened to many accounts of visits of pilgrims before it became my own blessing to go.  'Abdu'l-Bahá rose as we entered the room and stretching out his hands he bade us welcome and seated us beside him quite as if we had always been known to him, removing for us once and for all time the feeling of diffidence which was only natural when stepping into that majestic presence.  Here indeed was majesty, but the surroundings were of the simplest that I had ever seen.  Here was hospitality, a hospitality which might have been used toward persons of great distinction; and here was dignity, a dignity which is only born of heavenly knowledge and which walks with the Lord of men!
Each phase of the Master's manner sank deeply into my heart as each new impression was born within me, a new sense of how we should be to be worthy to deliver to the world the teachings of the Cause of God which he came to establish and to fulfil.
How small we seemed, how weak and immature, how unworthy and how fruitless!  To have been ushered into that presence and to have gone empty-handed, to have been accepted of him, and to have had nothing to offer but our humble willingness!  Oh the shame of it!  And yet he welcomed us as if we had been deserving children returned for our reward!
As I think of the opportunities which he has made possible for us, of the example which he came to set for us, nothing, with the help of the Power of the Covenant, is impossible.  I wonder how we can ever fall short of the greatest reverence of which humanity is capable, of the greatest delicacy for which all things of the Spirit call!  It is time that we should be adorning ourselves with those attributes which will make worthy exponents of the Cause.  Let these words of his be our constant inspiration and reminders:
"I desire for you distinction.  The Bahá'ís must be distinguished from others of humanity.  But this distinction must not depend upon wealth-that they should become more affluent than other people.  I do not desire for you financial distinction.  It is not an ordinary distinction that I desire; not scientific, commercial, industrial distinction.  For you I desire spiritual distinction; that is, you must become eminent and distinguished in morals.  In the love of God you must become distinguished from all else.  You must become distinguished for loving humanity; for unity and accord; for love and justice.  In brief, you must become distinguished for all the virtues of the human world; for faithfulness and sincerity, for justice and fidelity, for firmness and steadfastness, for philanthropic deeds and service to the human world, for love toward every human being, for unity and accord with all people, for removing prejudices and promoting international peace.  Finally, you must become distinguished for heavenly illumination and acquiring the bestowals of God.  I desire this distinction for you.  This must be the point of distinction among you."
This must not be of profession only, but by actually making these words part of our every day life.  Upon us depends the greatest of all responsibilities.  That we may be worthy!


XIII:5, August 1922
page 118
A beautiful message from the Holy Land
Rúhá Khánum
The Bahá'í Community, Persian Colony,
Haifa, Palestine, Ridván 1922.
Dear sisters and brothers in the Cause of God,
At last I am pleased to be able to answer your very kind letters and to thank those friends, who sent messages of loving sympathy to us in the first days of our crushing sorrow.
Until now I have been broken down with grief, my heart was sore distressed, my eyes were overflowing with bitter tears; I could not collect my thoughts sufficiently, I had no power to write to those dear friends, who had sent such affectionate words of consolation to me in my overwhelming loss.
Now we can comfort our hearts with the assurance that, though our beloved Master is no longer in his mortal body, yet his eternal Spirit is present with us for evermore.  Whilst here on earth his humanity was as a cloud, which hid his divine Spirit from us.  That veiling cloud is now removed, and we feel the intensity of his spiritual Guidance.
As the Master said after the Ascension of Bahá'u'lláh:
"The Light of the Sun of Truth will never set.  The waves of the Sea of Truth will surge for all time.  The divine rain from the Kingdom of Glory will never fail.  Inspiration from the Realm of the Supreme will not cease for evermore.
"Life-giving showers are constantly flowing from the clouds of Mercy.  Help is still being poured out from the Heavenly Land, and aid from the Supreme Lord is being given without ceasing.  Though that Glorious Sun (Bahá'u'lláh) has set in the horizon of this world, it has risen in radiant splendour in the divine sky of celestial grandeur.
"The eyes of the people were veiled by his earthly body from seeing the Light of the Sun of Truth. ...
"As that veil has been withdrawn, it is now the time to proclaim the Word of God, to send forth the lightnings of the Spirit, to chant the melodies of Faithfulness in the Rose-Garden of God the Beloved.
"Oh Nightingales of the Garden of Virtue!  Now is the day to sing the beautiful harmonies of Heaven!
"Let your heart be no longer troubled, neither sit idle in sorrow and mourning, but arise; wing your flight into the Celestial atmosphere, singing the triumphant hymns of holiness in the garden of Love, always with your heart fixed on that Divine Home of the Radiant Beloved, towards which we are all as pilgrims, making our Pilgrimage!
"In this day of the Spiritual Springtime if we do not arise in the glorious work of establishing the Unity of the Kingdom, at what season should we choose to begin?  Verily now is the appointed time."
These words apply equally to our days, when our hearts bear the burden of the agony of parting with our Beloved Master.
Now my friends, I implore you, let us each and all stand together in a vast army of Light, steadfastly and loyally determined to vanquish the Powers of Darkness on the pitiful battlefield of the World.
Let us remember the disciples of His Holiness the Lord Christ-how after his Ascension they, though few in number, stood faithfully together, united in
page 119
soul and heart and mind, striving to accomplish that work, for which their Lord had suffered.
Thanks be unto God, that 'Abdu'l-Bahá has left many friends, who are ready to give up all their days, their comfort and earthly happiness, to spread the teachings of the Bahá'í Cause, which, when known and understood by the noble and pure-minded, will change the heart of the world.
We have been consoled and comforted by the visits of many dear friends from all parts of the world.  They have been our great support in these sorrowful days.  We are very glad to have one of these friends, Lady Blomfield, still with us.  She accompanied our beloved Shoghi Effendi and his sister when they returned from England.  She was just like a very kind mother to them in the hour of their deepest sorrow; and ever since she has been here, she has been occupied with many useful works, connected with various matters, necessary to the good of the Cause.  We are all extremely sorry that she is leaving us in the immediate future, to continue her work in Europe on her return journey to London.
I am sure we shall achieve much more in these days, than in the earth life of the Master, because the agony of the parting has so softened our hearts, that our one aim and desire is to give joy to his blessed Spirit.
When the Shepherd is gone, the sheep must stand closer together to protect each other from the attacks of wolves.
Therefore let us not be depressed.  I know that if we turn our whole hearts to God, we shall surely hear the music of the voice of 'Abdu'l-Bahá singing therein.  Listen in the night season, we shall hear him say:  "I am with you, fear not, neither be cast down by sorrow!"
Hearken at morn:  He is saying:  "Arise for the service of the Cause of God, and the spreading of His Truth."
Listen at noontide, you will hear him say:  "Faint not, though the flame of your sorrow be burning hot, for soon you shall be refreshed by the cooling breeze of God's Mercy."
Listen at twilight-his voice is saying:  "Be happy, rest and trust in me, for I love you, and I will never leave you nor forsake you, my children.  Be united!  Be patient!  Be hopeful, be faithful!"
I am sure our Beloved desires for us all, joy, happiness of heart and an abundant baptism of the Holy Spirit.
Therefore let us prepare our souls to receive this great and glorious Gift in these, our wonderful days-which the Prophets and Saints in past ages longed to see!  They were deprived of this blessing, to which we have attained!
I am thankful to say that we have glad tidings from Persia, where the friends are arising in renewed strength and unity to serve the Cause with faithfulness and loyalty.
It is ever thus, when our Beloved passes from earth into the wider world, those, whose sorrow is overwhelming, find relief in striving to accomplish all he would wish to have done.
I am glad to say that our dear Protector of the Cause, Shoghi Effendi, is now resting from the work which was so immense.  He felt it necessary to go into retreat, in order to pray, and concentrate and meditate on the glorious and difficult task entrusted to him, and to gain the strength needed for its fulfilment.
Shoghi Effendi is precious to all the Bahá'í friends, for he is our leader, bequeathed to us by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
page 120
Concerning him a Persian friend has quoted:  "When the rose has faded and its garden is destroyed how shall we inhale its fragrance?  Nowhere, but from the attar which is its essence!"
I conclude my letter by asking all the dear friends to pray for the family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that they may receive power to transmute the agony of the parting into determination to help Shoghi Effendi in his work, for indeed we all miss the Master more and more every day!  He was all the world to us, our spiritual and our earthly father, our comfort, our hope, our companion and our guide in all the affairs of our daily life.
The only joy we have is when, from all countries we hear the good news of the unity of the dear friends and the growth of the Divine Cause.
The Greatest Holy Leaf, my mother and my sisters join me in love and Bahá'í greeting to you all, and in assuring you that we always pray at the Holy Shrines for the dear friends, that they may be assisted and strengthened in the path of Servitude so that they may accomplish a great work in the spreading of the Divine Cause in this Day, for "Now is the appointed time".
Ever your loving friend and spiritual sister in the service of the Cause of God.
(Signed) Rúhá.


XIII:5, August 1922
page 121
Miss Genevieve Coy
A record of spiritual experience.
[Extract]
...
Miss Coy's experience illustrates the appeal of the Bahá'í teachings to the highly trained university scientist.  'Abdu'l-Bahá so perfectly unites science and religion that the most sceptical modern scholar is won by his heavenly logic and his creative words.  Miss Coy first heard of the Bahá'í movement while teaching and studying in one of our great American universities.  As a specialist in psychology she thought how delightful it would be to collect material on the psychology of the spiritual transformations effected by the Bahá'í teachings.  With this critical spirit of the scientific investigator she began to question the Bahá'ís as to their inner experiences and to read the writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Bahá'u'lláh which they said were the fountain source of that newness of life which she saw shining so brightly in their lives and faces.  The result of this investigation she records in the following bit of spiritual autobiography which she wrote at the request of the present writer:
"For five years before I heard of the
page 122
Bahá'í movement my whole attitude toward life had been sceptical and materialistic.  I thought that I had absolutely no religious faith left in me.  The very words, 'God', 'spirit', 'faith', came to have an utterly disagreeable connotation to me.  I lost my faith in everything and everyone.  The moral standards of my early youth simply vanished, and I was left with no standards of living, save a strangely unavoidable devotion to my work.  For the rest-dying seemed better than living; life looked utterly black to me, and I would gladly have disappeared from existence.
"And yet, down under all that black despair there was the faintest suggestion of some voice of hope that would not be utterly silenced by my own selfishness.  But it was too faint to help much.  And then, when it seemed to me that I had come to the end of the road, and that there was only darkness ahead-then the light came!  I heard the story of the lives of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  I learned how these teachers had helped ordinary men and women to live beautifully and joyfully, and I was filled with an intense desire to know more of how they would help me to live the things I had dreamed of doing.  All during the following days and nights those two great names rang in my ears, and a glory, as of a new dawn, seemed to fill my heart wherever I went.  I read the books they had written.  I talked with men and women who had come to love them; and then, like a gift from an unseen hand, came the realization that this glorious new vision was for me, as well as for the others.
"Now I know that there is no true living except as one lives 'in God, and for God'.  Nothing is of any importance save to do God's will, as it is revealed by Bahá'u'lláh.  And the most wonderful thing of all is that through reading and meditation and prayer power comes to one really to make one's life over, so that one may live joyfully, in service to one's brothers.
"My attitude toward life has been so changed that I could not possibly go back to the old standards.  I know that I am in God's hands and that no real harm can ever reach me.  I know that He will help me to serve Him and His children.  I know that I have come into my Father's home, and that henceforth I must strive to live as one of the children of the Most Glorious.  Because of this, the two prayers that I pray most earnestly are these:  'Strengthen me to serve Thy beloved and to help those who need Thee', and 'May my service be acceptable to Thee, and my actions a praise to Thee'."
Albert Vail.


XII:6, September 1922
page 131
The need of a universal programme
"Universality is of God," writes 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "and all limitations are earthly."
"We know in part and we prophesy in part; but when that which is perfect is come that which is in part shall be done away."
All our human thinking and social programmes, our prescriptions for the world's illnesses have been partial, fragmentary.  Peace conferences find no effective solution.  Prejudice, strikes, preparations for war continue to grow and spread.  How can civilization be saved?
A universal society of nations with a universal limitation of armaments is a remedy.  A universal language is another.  But the illness of the world is too serious to be cured by any one remedy.  "The world of humanity," says 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "will not be transformed into the heavenly paradise through the promotion of one, single principle.  Every progressive principle which is the cause of the advancement of the world of humanity is like a simple element.  A simple element does not produce a composite life.  But when the elements are associated together then a being is brought into existence.
"The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh and his heavenly teachings include all the elements and principles of perfection.  Among these (principles) are:  the highest efficiency in the educational system, the oneness of the world of humanity, the conformity of religion with science and reason, equality of rights among the children of men, the breaths of the Holy Spirit, equality of men and women, the sweeping away of the prejudices existing among the various religions, heavenly morals, the fragrances of the Merciful, universal peace, etc.  The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh combines in it all these principles."18
A programme outline
Compiled from the Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
The independent investigation of truth.
The promotion of the oneness of the world of humanity.
The instruction of mankind in the knowledge of human brotherhood.
The inculcation of the primordial oneness of all phenomena.
The upraising of the standard of the solidarity of the human race.
The spread of the precepts of spiritual civilization.
The teaching of the synthesis of the heavenly philosophy.
The conformity of religion with science and reason.
The elucidation of the essential oneness of the divine religions.
The explanation of the continuity of prophetic revelation.
The abandonment of racial, denominational, worldly and political prejudices, prejudices which destroy the foundation of mankind.
The readjustment of the economic relations between capital and labour so that each individual member of the world of humanity may enjoy the utmost welfare and prosperity.
The organization of the arbitral court of justice so that all the nations of the world may thus remove all traces of enmity and hatred.
The up-building of the principles of one universal auxiliary language.
page 132
The betterment of morals.
The inculcation of divine love through the power of religion.
The essential necessity of the confirmation of the Holy Spirit.
"If a person desires to work for the progress of the world of humanity he must turn his face to the Kingdom of Abhá (the most Glorious).  That divine power may then assist him in all his undertakings and the penetration of the word of God will change this nether world into the mirror of the realm on high."  "Every plan is in need of a power for its execution.  Today the penetrative power in the world of existence is the confirmation of the Kingdom of Abhá.  Every plan and system which is assisted by this power will be established in the world of humanity and will be realized among men.
The Star of the West will seek to present month by month the great principles of this universal programme and their application to world conditions.  These principles and the divine dynamic, the Holy Spirit within and behind them are the Cause of God in the world of today.  The Star of the West will seek to record the majestic progress of this Cause in all nations and religions and to reflect from the mirror of its pages the rays of that Sun of Righteousness which has arisen with universal healing on its beams.


XIII:6, September 1922
page 133
The spirit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Horace Holley
Part I
The divine power, in its fullness, penetrates the universe at all times, but each existent being shows forth this power only to its own degree.  Stone, plant, animal and man-all are sustained by the one power, without which nothing could ever exist.  In the same degrees that stone, plant and animal receive the power, it is received also by man, for man's physical being is the sum of all that nature contains.  So long as man is content with these degrees of existence, man cannot be distinguished from nature either in origin or end; he would be considered merely as nature in the state of self-awareness, a mirror in which for a certain period nature can be seen and known.  Man is immersed in nature, though his thought is not confined.
When we stand upon the shore of the sea, and watch the inrolling waves, it seems as though the ocean were moving and advancing upon the shore, but this motion and advancement are illusions of the eye, for each drop of the sea continues ever in the same place.  It is a motion we attribute to the sea, which in the sea itself is only agitation.  And thus the constant change and movement of life on the surface of nature; it is the illusion of life, not progressiveness of being.  For nature as a whole lives, through the divine power, but the existence of each production of nature is merely lent and then withdrawn.  The tree lives, but the leaves that are put forth by the tree wither and fall.  Today we see a man, and the man shares in the common thought; but tomorrow we see another man in his place, and the actions and thoughts of the first are repeated.  The continuity of men is but the continuity of leafage, not the continuousness of the tree from season to season.
But man is immersed in nature as the ship is immersed in the sea, and the force of the wind which produces only agitation in the sea, produces true movement and progress in the ship.  But the ship that is deprived of sails, and is rudderless, then shares only the agitation of the sea, the end of which vessel is destruction.  So man, when deprived of those faculties that exist above nature, and independent of nature, lives in the agitation of nature and dies like the foam on the wave.  By his thought he may perceive this, and become aware of it, but by thought it cannot be prevented or changed.
Now, as when a plant is removed into a dark place, far from the light of the sun, its forces gather dumbly into the roots, and its leaf withers, its flower fades and its fruit is destroyed; and the plant itself, by no effort or exertion of its powers can overcome the lack of the sun; but when placed once more in the light its forces are liberated and the plant seems again to live from within; so are those faculties in man that respond to the divine.  Neither will, nor thought, nor desire, which are the forces of man, can move upward from the roots of being in the darkness of nature, for man depends upon his spiritual existence upon the life and light of the divine.  Nature is the shadow of God, and in that shadow man is a plant that sleeps.
page 134
That which brings the divine light unto the dumb and deeply hidden spiritual forces of man is the Manifestation of God.  Into the shadow of nature the Manifestation comes, but of that darkness he has no part, for in the Manifestation of God the spiritual faculties are perfected and mature.  The divine light enters his being without shadow or interruption, and from the being of the Manifestation of God it is reflected to all the horizons.  Into the darkness of the world of nature the Manifestation of God brings a clear light, as a mirror which has been lowered into a deep pit can reflect the light of the sun and thereby banish the pit's darkness.  The light which the Manifestation of God mirrors forth to banish the darkness of nature in man is the Holy Spirit.
Now the Holy Spirit is a force which surpasses in energy and influence any force which man of himself can produce or imagine.  As the sun is more powerful than anything upon the earth, and all the forces of the earth are but shadows or emanations of the sun, so the Holy Spirit is more powerful in the world of being than any human faculty.  The Holy Spirit is a universal and divine power, which cannot be known by any faculty in its universality.  Rather does it awaken and inspire all the faculties of the dormant soul, as the sun in springtime awakens and inspires the faculties that sleep in the earth.
Just as when, in winter, all the trees of the forest are locked in sleep, and none has leaves or signs of vitality, and in this condition we can judge them only by their relative size or perfection of form; but when the spring comes those that have life hidden in the root put forth leaves and buds and those that have no life remain as they were, so that then we can distinguish the living tree from the dead tree; even so during the spiritual darkness before the coming of the Manifestation of God all the souls are dormant, and we judge the value of people by their outer possessions, their personal activity or their commanding influence over the other dormant souls.  But when the power of the Holy Spirit descends, then those souls that have life show forth the quality of life, and those that have no life remain in the death of nature even as they were.  That is why John the Baptist cried in the wilderness-that is, the wilderness of spiritual ignorance-"Repent ye, for the Kingdom of God is at hand!"  For he would warn the souls that what they thought was life was in reality the illusion of life, and what they considered the light of existence was in reality the shadow of deprivation.  Thus when Christ manifested, bringing the Holy Spirit to mankind, the souls that yearned for the reality knew the Spirit in him, and gave the Spirit entrance into their hearts, while the souls that were wholly immersed in nature remained in the outer darkness that nature is.
Entering the heart wherein it is invited, the Holy Spirit brings life and light; light to discern the true spiritual Self; life that animates and inspires the spiritual faculties to conscious activity.  Now the seed is small and inert and apparently dead, yet the tree is hidden within it, and when the tree comes forth it is immense and visibly living and active.  And no man can discover the tree that is within the seed, but the sun discovers it and brings it forth; and in this way the Holy Spirit discovers the soul within the body, and brings it forth into the light of the divine.  This life which the soul receives through the penetrating energy of the Holy Spirit differs from the life of the body as the life of the tree differs from the life of the seed; received from outside nature, the life of the soul is not subject to nature's decrees.  It is the "new life", the "second birth", the "resurrection" which has been recorded in all the Holy Books; and because this life can be acquired only
page 135
through the Holy Spirit, therefore the coming of the Manifestation of God to the world of men corresponds to the "day of resurrection" of which tradition never quite lets go.  Moreover, because all men reveal their inner, spiritual condition by their acceptance or rejection of the Holy Spirit, just as the trees reveal their degrees of vitality in the spring, the time of the Manifestation likewise corresponds to the "day of judgement" so caricatured in the common interpretation.  But the spiritual "judgement" is that which the soul renders within and upon itself, through the degrees of its knowledge or ignorance.  The sun does not judge the tree, nor does God judge any man.
Now the mystery of the Manifestation of God is this:  that the Holy Spirit reveals to men their own true self; so that in heeding and obeying the Manifestation a man heeds and obeys his own spirit which desires to awake and to predominate in him; and in rejecting and persecuting those who reflect the Holy Spirit, a man rejects and persecutes his own reality.
This rejection of the Holy Spirit is due to our being content with the existence we receive as a gift from nature, without effort or thought of our own, and our lives while they endure are as the spending of a treasure we have not earned, and the wasting of a substance we cannot restore.  Intent upon the shadow, and habituated to the shadow, we are repelled by the light, and relying upon the being which nature temporarily animates, we permit all our desires to stay imprisoned in this narrow cage.  No death is more strait than the false life of the body, and resurrection from this death is resurrection indeed.
Now the power of the Holy Spirit is directly evidenced in the life it establishes within the seeking soul, which power has no likeness, equal or comparison; but the Holy Spirit, through a reflection and an indirect power, also predominates over the world's material destiny.
For the sun which produces leaves and buds in the living tree, likewise produces decay and consumption in the dead tree; and the Holy Spirit evokes life within the animal soul of man as well as within the spiritual, each man being aroused and stimulated according to the nature of his own predominant desire.  Therefore, in the day of the Manifestation, humanity is stirred by invisible forces which penetrate to its very depths.  Dormant or slumbering desires awaken and inactive wills become active.  Strange, unwonted movements arise among the people, spreading mysteriously like an infection, some for good and some for evil.  The observer thinks that each of these movements has a personal leader who is its source and cause, but this is not so.  It is the mutual recognition of like minds, and their grouping around the point of greatest influence.  Thus those who are slaves suddenly receive a vision of freedom; the downtrodden arise with a new hope; the poor become dissatisfied with their poverty; the rich become dissatisfied with their wealth; the basis of society, which is habit formed by accepted standards of thought and feeling, suddenly being swept utterly away.  The consequence is that those who have power, influence, wealth, position and authority begin to feel that this is threatened with destruction.  The groping of humanity for the new life and light such people consider to be anarchy, since it overflows the ancient channels of custom and denies the barriers of tradition.  Thus, if power, influence, wealth and authority are a man's highest desire, he clings to it all the more frantically the more its position is undermined.  During the days when their property, influence and position were secure these same people might have ruled, controlled or taught with a certain apparent benevolence, but this is turned into savage hate and violent oppression through fear
page 136
of loss.  Thus attachment to material things, betraying them, becomes the cause of their rejecting the Holy Spirit; and this applies to those predominant in the accepted religion, art, science and philosophy as well as those predominant in industry and other practical affairs.  For the Holy Spirit to be known must be sought above all that is.  To prevent the operation of the new forces, the deniers of God direct their violence against one and then another group which they consider to be the source and cause, arriving by a sure instinct at the persecution of those most imbued with the Holy Spirit, and if possible, of Him who is its centre and perfect cause.  Thus it was in the day of Christ; and those who understand the genius of history underneath its changing appearances can trace the same character and quality of events in the day of all the prophets and messengers.
But this rejection, increasing violence on the one hand and faith on the other, fails of its purpose from the first, being unwittingly but agents that carry out the mysterious purposes of the Divine Will.
For there appears another mystery in the coming of the Manifestation:  that the Holy Spirit both creates and destroys.  That which it creates is the life of the inner being; that which it destroys are the veils of attachment to outer being; it destroys the foundation of injustice, ignorance and hate, and this in reality is a divine blessing though in appearance it is hardship and punishment.  Had the people in the time of Christ realized the purpose of the Holy Spirit in and through his life and teaching, its power would have expressed its predominance through construction rather than through destruction, for material things are not evil in themselves but are evil only as they attract and delude the soul from its true direction.  As a small piece of iron near the compass will deflect the needle from the true pole, so one personal desire retained within the soul diverts the soul's vision downward.
But as the Holy Spirit is brought into the world from outside the world, so is it afterward withdrawn into its own sphere.  Then its influence becomes wholly secondary:  that is, its spiritualizing effects are measured by the degree in which it was received consciously into the hearts of people.  Even though known and accepted consciously by a very few, a certain measure of spirituality, knowledge, justice, kindliness and freedom can be observed in the world which previously did not exist.  For the power of the Holy Spirit, perfect and unconditioned in itself, becomes imperfect and conditioned in its effects.  Religion, which in the day of the Manifestation is a secret essence distilled in the heart, gradually becomes again a matter of outward things, prescribed thoughts and natural desires.  But when religion again becomes a matter pertaining to the world of effects, then the people who had rejected its power in the world of causes willingly participate in the religion, for by now religion has become one with their own capacity and desire.  Thus, since they believe in property, they strive to increase the property of the churches; since they believe in laws and prohibitions, for the sake of material stability, they strive to perfect the definitions and limitations of the creeds; since they are animated by personal ambition, they make religion subserve19 a vast superstructure of offices, titles, honours, functions and positions, and spend their lives mounting from one to another of these rungs of illusion; and since they delight in the intoxication of the senses, hence the elaborate rites, ceremonies, sacraments, observances and festivals of their religion, the wearing of purple and red, the chanting, the burning of incense; and since ambition is essentially competitive, hence the feuds and struggles among the different religions and creeds, poisoning the stream of love and inspiration at its very source, which is the cause
page 137
of all warfare and strife in the world, as well as the cause of anarchy and atheism; for that which these people consider religion is the worship of the body, and that which they accept as from God is in reality the stupefaction of the spiritual soul.  Their triumph is the darkening of the divine light and life, and their victory is in the absence of the Holy Spirit.  This is that "darkness" which Christ banished when he came, and this is that "world" which every Manifestation overcomes through the Divine Will.
Now consider the character of this age.  It is a sea which is stirred to its depths, and the vessel of every life is tossed by a sudden and violent force.  As when, in the rolling of a ship, one object becoming loose falls upon and loosens another object, but the cause of the first object's movement is not itself but of the ship; so the violent impact of men in this age; those who are shaken ascribe the force to those who move against them, but the initial force, in fact, is not of man.  A new life and light has penetrated the body of the world, and nothing that was can remain unchanged.  A thousand conflicting winds meet over every wave; there is no escape by retirement, and there is no independence in separation.  Each atom of the body of humanity thrills with a new joy or pain, a new hope or a new despair.  It is as though a vase had been emptied into the air, and its essence blown to every remotest region.  Whatever our interest is, it leads us to a ground of supreme conflict, whether we desire freedom or protection, justice or power, change or absence of change.  This is not the result of human thought or will or desire, but the result of a universal force which thought and will and desire have received.  So conventions and customs dissolve like ice in the sun; new ideals have put forth leaves and buds like gardens in spring.  Among all men, this power is yet not of man; these are the effects we see, the cause is the return of the Holy Spirit whose universal reflection in the life of the world we unknowingly witness.
From the Holy Spirit, a light shining into the mind from above, came those sciences and inventions that have united the material world in this age.  From the Holy Spirit, a water poured into the parched and thirsty soul, came those ideals and longings that have broken the rule of the past.  Humanity is moving its tents from the desert, seeking the promised land.
Now thoughts and events are but the reflection of the Holy Spirit, its effects and its shadow, and the effects do not give the measure of the cause nor the shadow convey the essence of the light.  If we turn from the effects to the cause, from the reflection to the light itself-if we seek for the purpose of this one universal power behind its infinitude of consequences-if we would realize the perfect expression of this power before this power is broken into the division of our myriad minds and hearts-we shall find the purpose and perfect expression of the Holy Spirit in the life and words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
That is to say, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, though appearing in the image of a man, has in reality been the selfless soul and abstracted mind which the Holy Spirit established as its perfect utterance, expression and centre in this age.  All others are of the effects of the Holy Spirit, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá is of the source and cause.  Through him, as a promise and also as a warning, the Holy Spirit has conveyed its presence and purpose to the world, and in him its predominant spiritual influence, its direct action upon the pure soul has been made utter and complete, its illumination extended to all the horizons.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has revealed the measure of God, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá has revealed the measure of man.
Therefore, though in the world of effects we see but the fulfilment of calamity and disaster, in 'Abdu'l-Bahá we witness the victory of wisdom and love.
page 138
Whereas men are troubled, or ineffectively seeking something good, 'Abdu'l-Bahá stood serenely illumined behind the shadow of darkness, and was the point of absolute peace within the heart of the storm.  If we would admit the Holy Spirit into our souls, we should turn to the Holy Spirit in its direct expression in the life and words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The world intensifies our attachment to the personal desires and changing thoughts which veil the true inner Self; 'Abdu'l-Bahá releases that attachment, burns the veils, and sets the spirit free.  And this is that which Paul intended when he said "Now we see through a glass darkly, but then shall we see face to face"; for the seeing darkly is the seeing the effects of the Holy Spirit in the world, while the seeing face to face is the seeing of the Holy Spirit in its chosen vehicle and perfect, unconditioned expression.  By turning to 'Abdu'l-Bahá we grow conscious of the true purpose of our existence, and as we grow conscious of this purpose it acquires predominance over our personal thoughts and desires.  "Wisdom is from above."  Therefore, whoever is concerned about the establishment of peace, he sees forces in the world for and against peace-a vast confusion of efforts and opinions; but in 'Abdu'l-Bahá he will find, the very essence of peace, the peace maker, an ever-continued inspiration to nobler action, like a tree whose fruits are renewed as often as they are picked.  Whoever is concerned about the nature of being, its origin, its expression and activity, its growth, its fulfilment and its end; he finds in the world "wisdoms" that allure and powers that flatter the self he now is; but in 'Abdu'l-Bahá he will find the Self of all the selves, whose riches can only be expressed in poverty, and whose ecstasy is proved in pain.  And it is the same whether one is concerned about these matters or about industrial stability, justice, women's rights, education, the protection and care of children or the reconciliation of the religions and creeds:  there is only one mirror where these matters can be witnessed in their true, universal aspect and significance, and that mirror is the heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Those who can measure the world's leaders with a true spiritual measure, they will agree.


XIII:7 October 1922
page 165
The spirit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá (continued)
Horace Holley
Part II.
Now, while wisdom is essentially a state of being, and only secondarily becomes an expression of principles, and wisdom cannot be comprehended in any one principle alone but only in the meeting of all principles in their source and cause, nevertheless, with respect to the world's capacity and requirements, 'Abdu'l-Bahá in many tablets and addresses gave importance to certain definite principles which are consequently his characteristic impression upon the minds of the age.
Foremost among 'Abdu'l-Bahá's principles is that of the independent investigation of truth.
A key to this principle may be found in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's use of the word "imitation" where we would use such words as "superstition" or "prejudice" or "ignorance".  Looking upon the minds, 'Abdu'l-Bahá perceived them as merely imitating one another and the past, like those prisoners who are chained one to another in rows.  For the Christian is born a Christian, and merely reflects the prevailing tradition in which he lives.  The German or Frenchman is born to his nationality, and imitates in thought and action the necessities to which nationality has ever in the past given rise.  Few people ever stand apart from their mental and moral environment and test its standards by any universal truth.  What most of us consider "thought" is merely an adapting of the common thinking to our personal advantage.  The savage obeys the law of the jungle, and we obey no less blindly the customs of our own day; and consequently, so far as true self-realization is concerned, we are merely that same savage reborn to a jungle of men rather than a jungle of beasts.  The spiritual consequences of this only become apparent when we reflect that while none of us would intentionally commit murder, we have made governments machinery for murder on the largest scale; and while none of us would starve the orphan or oppress the widow, we willingly grow rich upon the starvations that competitive industry commits day by day.  For we make our swiftly fleeting powers serve that which is also fleeting, and so at the last we have created nothing which is able to endure.  True independent investigation of reality leads to the investigation of our own being, and independence of self as passion and desire is the supreme independence.
Another of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's principles is that of the oneness of mankind.  All that 'Abdu'l-Bahá expressed through utterance or action, he expressed from the positive and steadfast realization that mankind, in its origin and its end, is one spiritual Man, whose atoms, so to speak, we are, and that one ray of the divine Self, and not many selves, sustains the spirit within the many souls.  Today, as we see and feel the immediate inter-action of events and conditions throughout the world, and how no portion of humanity is independent of any
page166
other portion, we begin to realize something of the significance of this Bahá'í teaching.  Thus for the first time, one undeviating standard is available for the guidance of religions, governments, industries, education, science and art alike, and that standard is the promotion of the oneness of mankind.  Whatever promotes unity is of the universal cause, and will prove fruitful and enduring; but whatever prevents unity is of the limited effects, and will be rejected by the Holy Spirit whose action is predominant over all.
Another principle expressed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá is that the foundation of all religions is one.  For by "foundation" 'Abdu'l-Bahá means the manifestation of the Holy Spirit, from which all the religions originally came.  The Holy Spirit is at all times one, though like the spring season it comes and goes, for the Holy Spirit is the expression of the will of God, and God is not divided against Himself, but the people of the world are divided.  It is this division of the people which causes differences in the effects of the Holy Spirit from age to age, for the Holy Spirit is perfect and complete in itself, but enters the world of humanity only according to the capacity of the time.  It is an inexhaustible ocean, while the people are but small vessels that quickly overflow.  Thus Moses, Christ, Muhammad, Buddha seem different beings and founders of different religions; but we see them in the mirror of the world's division and not in the light of the Holy Spirit.  In that light they are one being, one essence, one cause, one power and one foundation; and whatever they uttered is the reality, which we have seized and divided (interpreted) for our own gain, as the soldiers seized and divided the garments of Jesus.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has said that when representatives of all the world's religions have gathered for a sincere investigation of the foundation of religion, this will become manifest and all the secondary, man-made features of religion will utterly disappear.
'Abdu'l-Bahá himself made no distinction between Jew or Christian, Hindu or Muslim.  To all alike his spirit gave of its inspiration, and the acceptance or rejection of his ideal of unity was not of the creed but of the soul.
A fourth principle which 'Abdu'l-Bahá enunciated was that religion must be in accord with science and reason.
Now a person who is sick is limited by that sickness both physically and mentally, and he himself cannot overcome those limitations except by attaining health.  In the same way there are limitations which fall upon the understanding from sickness of soul.  It is spiritual sickness which permits a man to possess a religion at all contrary to science and reason.  He may not realize these limitations, but that is part of the disease.  These limitations shut out the ray of the spirit, as a wall shuts out the sun.  So long as he remains in this condition, the spirit shows forth only its destructive power.  Thus irrational religion does not and cannot become truly predominant in human affairs.  Even the fanatic does not follow out his religion in all things, but his self-interest or self-gratification is served in devious ways.  Without the Holy Spirit a religion cannot awaken the souls, but the irrational religion gains influence over material affairs through being itself material.
But this principle is binding upon science no less than upon religion.  'Abdu'l-Bahá summons the man of science to spiritual religion as he summons the man of religion to an appreciation of science.  If in a laboratory, by means of certain elements, an important experiment could be carried out and thereby great human benefits obtained, what would we think of the person who, though refusing to enter the laboratory, nevertheless denied the possibility of the experiment?  Yet modern science for
page 167
the most part takes this very attitude toward religion.  For the founders of all religions have indicated the elements and principles for the development of spirituality, and the people of science deny the essence of spirituality while refusing to enter the laboratory of infinity in their own souls.
As a matter of fact, while irrational religion and materialistic science seem outwardly opposed, inwardly they are equally conditions of being that manifest the absence of the Holy Spirit.  Both are plants confined in darkness, and both are ships deprived of sails.  Where the Holy Spirit obtains, the very words "science" and "religion" are left behind, for there is but one Reality, though this can be cognized by the several faculties on the several planes.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has also expressed as an organic, universal principle the equality of men and women.  Now man and woman are the dual, inter-acting forces produced from the one unity, life, which still controls their duality so that it cannot ever quite become separateness.
Physical separateness only the more closely binds the bodies of imagination and desire.  Man in nature realizes himself by contrast with woman, and woman in nature realizes herself by contrast with man.  Thus any extreme development in one produces an extreme development in the other, so that an equilibrium of thought and emotion is always maintained.  The combative type of man tends to produce the dependent, undeveloped woman, and the dependent, undeveloped woman tends to produce the combative type of man.  In the same manner, the materialistic business man tends to produce the woman parasite, and the reverse is also true.  For man in nature sees himself by reflection in woman, and woman in nature sees herself by reflection in man.  Thus any imperfection in one is conveyed to the other, whence it returns augmented, and so on without end.  Only the power of the Holy Spirit can create the one perfect mirror of reality for these imperfect images of being; for the Holy Spirit turns will and desire upward to a body of consciousness where sex does not exist.  In this age, as the spiritual reality becomes more and more evident, the negative and disastrous influences of sex-that is, sex as the end of will and the aim of desire-steadily diminishes; and this is the cause of the freedom of women in this age.  Were we conscious of the inner significances of being, we should behold in the freedom of women one of the most obvious evidences of the presence of the Holy Spirit in human affairs, and an evidence of inestimable importance.  Without the true freedom of woman there can be no end of war and ignorance and disease, for only by the freedom of woman can man likewise become free.
Another principle laid down by 'Abdu'l-Bahá is that of the solution of the economic problem.  The solution of the economic problem 'Abdu'l-Bahá has declared to be a distinctive characteristic of religion in its universal aspect; for no human power or alliance of powers hitherto has been able to work a solution.
Now by the fear that lies in poverty, either actual or prospective, the human soul is ever turned downward into nature, where the predominant law is the struggle for existence; and becoming imbued with this law, and captive to it, the soul's struggles only the more heavily burdens its own chains.  For the struggle for existence sets off the powers of one soul against the powers of another, and this mutual division of powers is mutual defeat.  Thus in this day the sciences and inventions which shadow forth a universal order, and dumbly signify the existence of a reality whose law is co-operation, through perversion have become the greatest menace to the very existence of mankind.
"The disease which afflicts the body politic is lack of love and absence of altruism," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá in New
page 168
York City ten years ago.  "In the hearts of men no real love is found, and the condition is such that unless their susceptibilities are awakened by some power so that unity, love and accord develop within them, there can be no healing, no relief among mankind."
A close study of this aspect of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's teaching indicates certain fundamental elements as conditional to the solution of the economic problem.  One of these elements is the universal obligation of useful labour.  Consider how idleness is condemned by physiologist and psychologist today, no less vigorously than by the moralist and the student of economics.  Wealth does not exempt any human being from the consequences of idleness or even misdirected activity.  These consequences are ill health of mind as well as body, and that disordered condition whose ultimate end is impotence or insanity.  Moreover, in avoiding useful labour, the privileged classes and their parasites have deprived themselves of the very capacity for labour, while increasing that capacity in those who cannot or will not avoid work.  In this condition we may see perhaps one meaning of Christ's saying:  "The meek shall inherit the earth."
But 'Abdu'l-Bahá has also stated that useful labour, performed in the spirit of service and with the ideal of perfection, is accounted an act of worship and a form of prayer.  Now prayer and worship, in their true signification, are not cries for assistance, nor requests for a gift, nor yet taxes paid to a spiritual overseer, but are expressions of gratitude for the supreme gift of life in the spirit that knows no death.  This is the motive that 'Abdu'l-Bahá declares should actuate our daily labour.  Moreover, work performed with that motive is creative work, and creativeness is the nature of God, so that it is the worker who shows forth the divine image and likeness on this plane.  But consider how many changes must take place in the industrial world before this creative sense can be generally expressed, and before labour is surrounded by those conditions which this conception of labour demands!  Nevertheless, even this shall be; for the Holy Spirit is destroying mightily all that intervenes between man and his own reality.
Implicit in this conception of the spiritual value of useful labour, is 'Abdu'l-Bahá's teaching that the present wage system must be extended so as to include participation in the profits of industry.  For it is evident that the essential purpose of industry is not to produce goods, but to maintain life-and maintain life on the plane of human dignity and refinement.  The act of producing goods must therefore coincide, in purpose and result, with the act of ennobling and freeing the producers themselves.  This is impossible under present conditions, but perfectly possible when industry is managed by the social engineer in place of the financial expert.
Another fundamental element is that of the voluntary sharing of wealth.
Reflect how those who possess other forms of wealth-physical, mental, moral and spiritual-have ever obeyed this universal and wonderful law.  Thus those who share their physical strength with the weak; those who strive incessantly to increase the commonwealth of beauty and of truth; those who devote their lives to the realization of greater political justice; and, above all, those who give love to whosoever are deprived.  All the love, beauty, truth, justice and science we have on earth are the result of a voluntary sharing of wealth-a divine principle whose veils grow darker and darker as we approach the lowest degree of wealth, which is gold.  But were we to estimate the sum total of all the taxes paid to any government within the past fifty years, and regard this total as being wealth forcibly rather than voluntarily shared, we can perceive how disastrously extravagant material selfishness is, even on its own plane.  For
page 169
a fraction of that sum total, given in the spirit of unity, would have obviated most of those expenses by which taxes are consumed, while in addition increasing vastly the means of producing more wealth by all and for all.  'Abdu'l-Bahá is he who has voluntarily shared wealth in all its forms and degrees, and this spirit is silently but rapidly leavening the world.
Thus when it is more clearly realized how disastrous separateness is, particularly in the larger fields of politics and industry, we shall behold unparalleled examples of self-sacrifice among the great and the small alike; and this essential condition having been fulfilled, relief and comfort will result.  For the more powerful arts and sciences are not yet in manifestation, being withheld in the treasury of the spiritual kingdom, which can never be exhausted.  Meanwhile, wealth is being forced from those who will not share it, and the old world is everywhere passing away.  Yet far from condemning wealth, 'Abdu'l-Bahá makes its attainment through useful labour a specific advice; but the object of its possession is the promotion of the unity of mankind.  By considering wealth as a talent on the material plane, the principle becomes clear.  It is not the inequality of talents or possessions which produces injustice, but the spirit of separateness, in the poor as well as the rich, in the ignorant as well as in the learned.  Inequality is the essential foundation of love, for no one can stand alone.
Another principle strongly emphasized by 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the establishment of an international auxiliary language.
As the nervous system is one throughout the body, and co-ordinates all the organs and limbs, so the body of humanity requires one universal language and writing to be learned by all people in addition to the mother tongue, which shall serve to interpret the needs, unite the interests and consolidate the purposes; and multi-language is the paralysis of the body of mankind.  Those who have concern for human welfare and progress will surely give this subject the attention it deserves.
But the principle by which 'Abdu'l-Bahá is most widely known, and for which he has been most extensively quoted, is that of universal peace.  The assurance that this is the century of universal peace, the age of the elimination of warfare, the day of the most mighty moving of the spiritual waves and the full illumination of the sun of righteousness-this assurance is 'Abdu'l-Bahá's steadfast covenant with those who follow him.
Today, the disaster of warfare is a net thrown over the whole of humanity, like the net thrown over a gladiator about to be slain.  None can emerge from this net until all emerge.  But the very fact that there is no escape for one save through escape for all, and the overwhelming danger of the present situation, brings the consciousness of the oneness of humanity nearer day by day.  Therefore this enveloping calamity is a result of the presence of the universal Holy Spirit-feared as a net of death by those who view it with personal eyes, yet seen to be a garment of divine protection by those who view all things in their spiritual light.
For the effort to avoid universal warfare is binding the minds and hearts of those who have been separate during all of history's ten thousand years.  It is creating the great agencies and institutions of the future humanity; it is destroying all agencies and institutions whose purpose is to keep humanity divided and enslaved.  Consider how the world's two most powerful kings have lately been overthrown and their empires rent asunder; and the full toll of inveterate ambition and greed has not yet been taken.
Therefore the indifferent are becoming mindful, and the activities of all humanitarians are finding a common channel and a unified expression.  But
page 170
peace, perfect peace, is first of the heart, through the breaths of the Holy Spirit; consequently those among the humanitarians who are wisest, while they strive to produce concrete results and discuss all possible methods, nevertheless have for their great objective the reconciling of the hearts of men.  For only that which is established in the heart can ever be established in the world, and peace will never be made real, lasting or secure until the world has recognized the power of the Holy Spirit which alone can conquer and subdue the rebellious hearts or fuse one changeless ideal upon the restless, ever-divided minds.  This is the Most Great Peace; this is the Peace of God.
The arch which these social principles of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, like pillars, are intended to support-the structure which fulfils their purpose and directs their use-is the principle of an international tribunal.
'Abdu'l-Bahá ever visioned the world federation wherein all men and women have part, and invokes this world federation within the progressive people of all races and nations.  Its cement is an international tribunal instituted through democratic selection and given binding authority by mutual agreement and pledge.  No portion of the race but will be fairly represented, therefore no portion but will be controlled by its decisions.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has said that when this tribunal is established, any government which instigated war would be set upon by all nations and, if necessary, abolished.  This is the firm basis of peace, and no agreement with reservations can be substituted for it.
It is an inherent part of all 'Abdu'l-Bahá's teaching on the subject of tribunals and political progress that the spiritual conditions for real justice have not yet been fulfilled.  He regards the function of legislation as a function of illumined minds, severed from all considerations save that of justice and truth.  The act of making laws he declares to be an aspect of meditation.  That is, just as the poet receives his visions, or the scientist his principles, through intense meditation, so will the future legislative body arrive at its structure of civic, national or international law.  Order is of the essence of the manifested universe, and that order flows through and inspires the minds that turn to it in unity and for the purpose of creating justice.  Thus those who are capable of entering this unity and impersonal abstraction are to be selected by the people from their wisest men.  The legislator, in fact, is placed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in a high spiritual station, and the evident tendency on the part of our noblest clergy to turn from fruitless theological discussions in order to assist in the solving of great political and economic problems is a reflection of this teaching; for 'Abdu'l-Bahá has also declared that the universal religion of the future will have no professional clergy.
Such, in brief, are some of the principles that characterize the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  They are those beacons he has lighted in the darkness of our world contention and strife, the vital energy he has poured into our apathetic minds and the guidance he has established for our selfish desires.  They are the spirit of evolution, the genius of prophecy, the expression of man as a spiritually conscious being in the age of his maturity and strength.  That these principles are the fruits of the tree of spiritual tradition is evident also in this further teaching of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that this is the age when the Temple shall be builded, reconciling not merely the religions and creeds, but also religion and science, and science and industry; and that to assist in building the universal Temple is incumbent upon all who are responsive to the divine Will.
These principles are the ark in which whoso enters is secure, and whoso remains outside of it will perish in the
page 171
rising waters of trouble that overflow the earth.  Let no one confuse that which 'Abdu'l-Bahá utters with the speculations of philosophers and the dreams of poets.  He speaks of the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit both creates and destroys, and none can resist the power of the Supreme.
For these principles are more than so many channels of useful activity; first and last they are signs and evidences of the return of the Holy Spirit to the world of men.  As when a traveller is crossing a barren and desolate land, and he suddenly comes upon a broad highway, lined with luxuriant trees, he will follow that highway to the city of refuge; so those who are travelling the world of righteous endeavour, and are weary and fainting at the oppositions encountered both without and within-when they come upon one of these principles, and behold the power with which it is informed and the majestic grace with which it is offered, they will certainly investigate until they find its source and cause; and the centre to which these principles lead from all the horizons of experience-the city of refuge where these spiritual highways end-is the luminous heart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that which has ever been called, and is, the City of God.


XII:6, September 1922
page 139
Some questions about science and religion
Interviews with 'Abdu'l-Bahá at Tiberias and Haifa.
Anna Kunz
The following exquisite picture describes the approach of two very devout Christians, Professor and Mrs Kunz to the Holy Land and their interviews with 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Easter season in 1921.  Professor Kunz is a university scientist.  His wife is the daughter of a prominent professor of theology.  They were sojourning in Switzerland, their homeland, whence they travelled to Palestine in March of 1921.  Editor.
To approach Haifa by boat is most wonderful.  It was just a few minutes before midnight of 22 March 1921, when the Karlsbad entered the blessed harbour of Haifa, dropping anchor about a mile off the shore.  The full moon stood bright and glorious over Mount Carmel.  Along the sea shore, up towards the mountain every house could be seen.  There were a few lights only, but the moon illumined the whole country most beautifully.  My heart was aching as I stood in silent prayer, but the wonderful spirit of that sacred place and land soon filled my heart and I realized that we had finally reached the Holy Land-holy in the past, holy in this great day of God and holy forever.
Early in the morning my husband and I were met by Dr Lutfu'lláh Hakím, whom 'Abdu'l-Bahá had sent.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was not at Haifa.  After a severe illness he had gone to Tiberias for a rest.  In his absence, we were beautifully taken care of by his family and friends.  Awaiting 'Abdu'l-Bahá's further instructions as to when we should be permitted to meet him, we enjoyed Haifa and 'Akká.
In the pilgrim house, located near 'Abdu'l-Bahá's house, we were given a room with a view up Mount Carmel.  It did not take us long to understand why this rather low mountain range was called the Mountain of God.  His spirit indeed lingers there.  The whole atmosphere seemed laden with a glorious something, with a great peace, with a joy from on high.  This mountain, sacred through the memory of past prophets has received a new baptism of the spirit in this dispensation.  Shortly after our arrival we were climbing over the rocky path to the Tomb of the Báb.  It was a glorious spring morning.  The birds were singing, flowers of all kinds were blooming everywhere.  Mount Carmel seemed to speak aloud of all the blessings that God had spread there.  It is true, we were greatly favoured to be permitted to come to those places during the year's most beautiful season.
But we deeply felt, though the outward beauty of that country was heavenly, that there was another beauty dominant, a beauty that could never vanish.  The beauty of the spirit will always linger there and will be found by the pilgrims of any season.  God's spirit surrounds
page 140
us certainly everywhere, but there it seems to hover in great abundance, as it has pleased God to bless this country above others.  This spirit of love and peace, of service and self-forgetfulness, emanating as it were from a great consciousness of God's presence overwhelmed us constantly.  This happened again and again as we entered the Tomb of the Báb, while at the Holy Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh, and while with 'Abdu'l-Bahá's family.  And him, through whom in this age this splendour is conveyed to God's creature we finally saw at Tiberias.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Servant of God, we were permitted to see.
As on that beautiful spring morning, so also at other times, once at night with the moon as our guide, we went to the Tomb of the Báb.  Oh, that all the Bahá'ís could realize the fragrance of that place!  Each time we went there it seemed more beautiful.  As one enters that sanctuary one feels at once in union with the higher world.  As we knelt there in prayer my heart seemed to melt; there was but one great longing.  When we prayed there for the last time, it was in the evening before our departure, it was as if my heart would break.  I knew that I loved this place more than any other place in the world.  Since we have gone away, during all these past months, there would often come over me a great longing for that holy shrine and again and again my thoughts wander there and I kneel down at this shrine and rest.  Now that this building is the resting place of 'Abdu'l-Bahá too, it must be more glorious than ever.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's family keeps open house all the time.  The women pilgrims are always welcome among these beautiful women and their children.  They live a life of great simplicity; their life is a reflection of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's life.  Their thoughts are with him always; they love him with a deep abiding love; they serve in his footsteps and for his sake serve all mankind.  Many a precious lesson was taught to me while in this household.  Often I was surprised to see that in spite of their restricted life, these women uphold a truly broad attitude towards life in general; they are full of the universal spirit; they know no narrowness; they are all-inclusive and therefore heavenly.
On Good Friday, before sunrise, we started for 'Akká and Bahjí.  We were a beautiful little group, two grandsons of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, some other young men, the Master's youngest daughter, Munavvar Khánum, Mr Kunz and myself.  From the station we walked over the green meadows towards Bahjí.  Passing Bahjí palace we soon reached the little house, where 'Abdu'l-Bahá often stayed for days and where all the visiting friends rest before entering the Tomb.  When we passed through the blooming garden, which was fragrant like the place around the Tomb of the Báb, after removing our shoes, we entered the court.  There we all knelt at the door which leads to the holy shrine of Bahá'u'lláh, while Munavvar Khánum with a sweet voice chanted the Visiting Tablet.  Then she opened the door and invited us to follow her.  The place was filled with the fragrance of Jasmine blossoms, a heavenly light filled the room.  Here we felt at once at rest and were permitted to pray for our friends, for the world, whose saviour had come as a thief in the night.  Here heaven and earth seemed to meet.  He certainly has made his resting place glorious.  Before the onrush of his spirit all human thoughts had to die; there was but one prayer possible,-that all the world would soon be enabled to serve at this holy threshold.  This was my great longing and this only had importance before so much glory.  Tears were welcome, they brought relief to the heart so overfull.  Everybody slowly withdrew, leaving Mr Kunz and myself alone at the Holy Shrine, whence for ages to come people of all classes, races and religions will derive new strength and assurance of God's nearness.  When we finally
page 141
had reached the garden again, we found a few Hindu soldiers there.  They were talking with the Tomb keeper and we were told that many of them (not Bahá'ís at all) would often come to the gate of this sacred place, kiss the wall and withdraw again, explaining that they felt and knew that they were standing on holy ground.
During the afternoon we saw the Ridván.  We also visited the barracks, where the first Bahá'ís with Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá spent their years of imprisonment.  Filled with sacred memories we returned in the evening to Haifa.  The next morning we were to leave for Tiberias, where the blessed Master expected us.
'Azízu'lláh Bahádur accompanied us to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  From the train we could see Nazareth.  We finally reached the Jordan valley and arrived, after three hours' ride, at the southern end of Lake Tiberias, whence we continued by boat to the old and unique little town of Tiberias.  So we finally reached the goal of our journey.  We were to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
How I wish that I could be worthier to tell of his glory, as he walked among men in human flesh, unknown to most people, and understood by a few only.  On the day of our arrival we got only a few glimpses of the Beloved, but they were sufficient to make us realize that his power and authority were not of this world.  It was a bright and luminous Easter morning when the Master called us into his room.  Oh, that I could picture him to all those who never saw him, could picture him in those simple surroundings at the shores of that same lake where Christ walked and taught.  Though I feared to approach him, after his loving words of welcome this fear vanished.  Here we sat before our Master, in a little room, with only the most necessary furnishings, on top of the hotel, with a view of that blessed lake.  His look seems to go into one's very heart.  Yes, he knows his children and their need.  As I think of him now, I always love to think, first, of his great simplicity, his marvellous humility which knows of no self-existence, and last, or better, first, of his boundless love.  To us his outward appearance seemed similar to that of the old Hebrew Prophets; his humility, his simplicity and love were like the Christ.  This boundless love conquered the hearts at once.  'Abdu'l-Bahá talked to us with a ringing, piercing voice which will forever sound in my ears.  His words would come forth with that unique simplicity, then he would pause for a while, often closing his eyes.  His spirit, it seemed when I dared to look at him, had left his body; he was looking into infinitude, communing with that world for which we long.  Having seen him, we could understand well what he meant when he said to us, "The prophet discerns by sight."  We came before him, my husband especially, with many, many questions in our minds, but sitting in his presence we seemed to forget them, or better, there did not exist any unsolved problems.  He said, "God has created a remedy for every disease," and while in his presence, we tasted of this remedy.
During the days of our stay at the hotel we saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá often.  We followed him as he walked peacefully to a nearby garden.  Unknown he passed through the crowd.  We saw him come back to the hotel, climbing the many steps to his room with a youthfulness that made my husband say "It looks as if he were carried over these flights of steps by unseen hands."  Though he was at Tiberias for a rest he received visitors all day long.  During those three days spent near him his love would more and more fill our hearts, so that my heart was sad and depressed when on Tuesday morning I realized that he was to say good-bye to us that day.  And as he bade us good-bye our
page 142
hearts were near to breaking.  As our tears of love and gratefulness flowed he suddenly left his room, telling us to remain within.
Before leaving Haifa we saw the Master most unexpectedly again.  A few beautiful pictures of how he lived and loved in his own home I shall cherish forever.  And as we left his glorious earthly home I felt as others, permitted to come into his presence, have felt.  I realized that we could in no way comprehend him, we could only love him, follow him, obey him and thereby draw nearer to his beauty.
His words spoken to us we herewith gladly share with all the friends.
__________
Interviews with 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tiberias-Easter morning.
The Master welcomed us heartily and said:  "I was very glad to hear of your coming.  When all the people are negligent you have been chosen by God.  You came to the Holy Land, attained to the pleasure of visiting the Holy Tomb and were able to come and visit me here.  How are the friends in America?"  We told the Master that the friends are well.
We told the Master of a group of Jews who were on the boat from Brindisi to Palestine.  He said:  "In their heavenly books the prophets have spoken of the Day of the Lord, the Last Day, and what they have spoken is all being realized in this day.  The Blessed Beauty sixty years ago in some of his tablets promised the Jews that they would come back to the Holy Land and what he said will be realized.  The pavilion of the Lord will be pitched on the mountain and this was fulfilled.  The pavilion of the Blessed Beauty was often pitched on Mount Carmel and the plain and hills around 'Akká while he was a prisoner.  He was subject to two despotic kings and he was under severe restrictions.  When guards were placed at the gate everybody was forbidden to meet him.  But his pavilion was pitched on the hills.  He would go and spend some days in them, and yet he was a prisoner."
We told the story of Mr Schneider.  (Mr Schneider was a refugee from Russia.  He reached the northern boundary of Persia penniless, knowing no one and ignorant of his route.  Some people met him and took him to their home where he sojourned for several days and then was taken by his host to the next village and to a home where he was welcomed and entertained.  From village to village he was conducted, and cared for, until at last in safety he reached the Persian gulf.  On inquiring at last who could be these people who had treated him with such marvellous kindness he learned that they were all Bahá'ís.)  He ('Abdu'l-Bahá) said such should be the case with all the Bahá'ís.  They should be the mercy of God to all the people of the earth without distinction of race and religion.  Bahá'u'lláh's light has shone forth upon all.  His rain of mercy has fallen on every spot just as the sun shines upon the pure and the sinner.  The rain falls upon good soil and the rocks.  The attributes of the Bahá'ís should be the same.  They should be the light of guidance to all the people.
We said:  "Easter has a new significance for us.  Resurrection has a new meaning."  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "It is a good, significant coincidence that we meet at this place where Christ told Peter to become a fisher of men."  He pointed out the place, about 150 meters away, where this happened.  The Sermon on the Mount was preached on Mount Tabor, which, as an accompanying Jew told us, dominates Galilee.
__________
Monday morning at 7:30.
Looking at our children's picture his beautiful face lighted up and after looking at it for a long while he said:  "They have bright faces.  They will be real Bahá'ís because they will have a Bahá'í education.  They will become good Bahá'ís."
page 143
Question:  "Science denies immortality.  How does the prophet know the contrary?"
The Master said:  "Science does not know; but the Manifestation makes discoveries with the power of the Spirit.  For instance:  a philosopher with induction finds out a way.  But the prophet discerns with sight.  A blind man has to find his way with a stick from point to point; so a philosopher through arguments from premises goes to conclusions, and not by sight.  But the Manifestations see with their inner eye (own eye); they do not go from premises to conclusions.  The prophets see many things with their inner eye.  They do not need to go by discoveries.  The scientist with induction is like a blind man who cannot see two steps ahead of him.  The prophet sees a long distance."
Question:  "Shall I find my mother again?"
The Master said:  "Certainly.  Separation is only in the world of bodies."
Question:  "Will the day come when all mankind will be able to discern by sight?"
He said:  "There will always be some.  Only a special number will have this attainment.  As Christ said, 'Many are called, but few are chosen.'  It will always be so.  The transformation depends upon divine bounty.  The mineral progresses in its own world.  But from the mineral to the vegetable it progresses only by divine bounty.  Also transformation from the vegetable to the animal is God's plan.  Of itself the transformation cannot take place.  In the realm of men transformation is possible only through another person."
Question:  "When people deny religion how shall we deal with them?"
Answer:  "You must be tolerant and patient, because the station of sight is a station of bounty; it is not based on capacity.  They must be educated."
Question:  "What are the requisites for a successful meeting?"
Answer:  "Before the meeting you must pray and supplicate for divine assistance."
Question:  "Shall we devote much time to the study of philosophy?"
Answer:  "Everything must be done moderately.  Excess is not desirable.  Do not go to extremes.  Even in thinking do not go to excess but be moderate.  If there is too much thinking you will be unable to control your thoughts."
I asked the Master to assist me in the physical sciences, in the solution of problems.  He said:  "You will be able to solve these problems."
Addressing both of us:  "You are confirmed.  Another power will help you,"-(besides the power of science).
Question:  "Why so much evil in the world?"
Answer:  "God has created a remedy for every disease.  One must apply the remedy.  Now these patients run away from the expert physician.  They neglect him.  Under inexperienced physicians they get worse.  The words of the religious leaders have no influence, no effect.  These physicians are more diseased than their patients.  The spiritual leaders now have no faith, though they claim to have faith in order to secure their positions."
__________
Monday afternoon at 4 o'clock.
We thanked the Master for the prayer revealed for our children.  He said:  "It is for your sake that I wrote it."
Question:  "What is the best method to spread this Cause?"
Answer:  "Explain the teachings, the principles of this Cause.  Some of them were revealed fifty years ago, some sixty years ago.  Fifty years ago there was no thought of universal peace and arbitration.  No one spoke of the oneness of religion and science.  Now many
page 144
spread them in their own ways.  I spread them through numerous churches and papers in America; then also in Europe.
"The word of God is powerful.  It will come to pass."
Question:  "Should these principles be spread under the name of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, or without these names?"
Answer:  "In the beginning you should mention Bahá'u'lláh.  They are his and are spread by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  When all the world was in disorder, when warfare was prevailing in the East and the West, Russia with Turkey, Persia with England and Afghanistan, and Garibaldi was fighting, the East was in intense darkness.  There was prejudice of race and religion; national and political prejudice.  The East was in intense darkness; the horizon was very dark.  And at such a time Bahá'u'lláh arose and spread a set of teachings."
Question:  "The students in the schools have to study so many subjects!  There are arising more and more sciences.  What should be the remedy?"
Answer:  "It is too much.  One must be moderate in choosing the number of subjects.  When there are too many the result is confusion.  Moderation is necessary.  For instance:  if a man has the power to carry a load of three hundred (pounds) he no doubt would fall if we give him one thousand (pounds).  He cannot bear it.  In the same way, one's brain must not be overburdened.  For instance:  students should not have more than six hours a day, lessons and preparations included.  Otherwise they will not succeed.  The brain becomes tired."
__________
Monday afternoon, 28 March 1921.
The Master:  "This lake is very blessed.  His holiness Christ and the other prophets walked along its shore and were in communion with God all the time and spreading the divine teachings.  Now, praise be to God that you reached this land safely and we met one another on the shore of this same lake!  You will receive great results from this visit afterwards.  You will become the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity.  You will release the hearts of the people from the intense darkness of different prejudices, so that each soul may love all the people of the world, without distinction.  Just like a shepherd who is affectionate to all his sheep, without preference or distinction, you should be affectionate to all.  You should not look at their shortcomings.  Consider that they are all created by God who loves them all."
__________
Tuesday morning, 29 March.
The Master:  "You have been here three days.  They are equal to three years.  In the Bible in the days of the Lord one day was equal to one year.  I hope that these three days are equal to three years.  The results of this visit will be equal to the results of three years.  Now you should go back in perfect harmony and joy and with supreme glad tidings.  You should gladden the hearts with glad tidings of the Beauty of Abhá.  Say to the friends:  'The Kingdom of God has been opened to you.  The tree of life is yours.  Heavenly graces are bestowed upon you.  The effulgence of the Sun of Truth is shed on you.  God has chosen you.  This crown He has placed upon your head.  This eternal life has been given you.  Therefore you should be very happy.  Turn day and night to the Kingdom of Abhá.  Supplicate for boundless favours from that Kingdom.'
"I am praying every night and I supplicate and implore.  I beg of God to bestow upon you infinite grace so that all of us may attain to the station of servitude, so that we may do as He wishes us to do.  We are all His servants, drawing light from the Sun of Abhá."


XII:6, September 1922
page 145
The coming of the Promised One
The reconciliation of the expectations of religion and the laws of science.
Albert Vail
The whole religious world today is in anticipation of a world-teacher who will take "the broken arcs" of our human efforts, aspirations, philosophies, social programmes and bring them "to a shining circle".  More than seventy years ago Emerson the philosopher-poet felt stirring in his heart the longing for such a teacher and he wrote his declaration that should this great leader appear he, Emerson, would sell all his goods and go halfway around the world to sit at his feet.
Through all the religions today there is shining the glorious anticipation of the coming of a deliverer, a saviour, a messiah.  In millions of hearts the good news is ringing that he is right at our doors.  "Lift up your gates and be ye lifted up ye everlasting doors and the King of Glory shall come in."
In the following talk taken down by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb during the Great War 'Abdu'l-Bahá shows that even our naturalists today believe in the coming of great teachers.  And the logic of the theory of evolution, of perpetual change is that today new teachers are due to come and save our world from its manifest calamities.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's analysis is as follows:
"The adherents of all the religions of the world are expecting the coming of a Promised One and they pray for his advent.  Even the atheists anticipate the appearance of a wise and sagacious reformer, a renovator of old habits and superstitions.  Their expectations, however, are not like those of the religionists whose beliefs are wrapt in fantastic ideas and impossible and unrealizable rules.
"The atheists believe in nature and its manifestations.  They state that for nature there are two courses.
"The first is the common, ordinary course, running throughout all the grades of the social structure and organized, animate and inanimate beings, producing stereotyped organisms and definite, agreed ends, decomposing and recomposing variable forms, with resourcefulness and adaptability.
"The second is the extraordinary and unusual course which produces from time to time human beings who are beyond nature, who are super-mundane, the supermen.  After many generations of ordinary type, nature, being bored with its own monotony and corresponding resemblances creates an extraordinary individual (a mutation) to show that its fertility is not at an end and that it is capable of exhibiting the signs of activity uncommon in the field of human experience.  Thus a powerful, wise, commanding leader is born who is to readjust through his innate forces the disorganized machinery of the civic, intellectual and ethical life of a nation.
"They further state that change is the unchangeable law of nature.  One cannot conceive of nature without motion and variability.  These two laws are the inherent qualities of all phenomena and
page 146
for this reason the events of a previous cycle will not correspond with those of a succeeding one.  From its hidden, unseen fountain in every century nature brings forth a new set of forces and fits them into the new exigencies and environments which were brought about, by a new generation with larger demands and greater responsibilities.
"For example:  ages ago a philosopher, according to the atheist's opinion-an inspired prophet according to the doctrines and ideas held by the religionists-appeared for the education and instruction of mankind.  This prophet established certain principles which laid the foundation of a stable and lofty civilization and insured the security and progress of the people.  But after the lapse of many centuries that institution became antiquated; the letter took the place of the spirit, hearts grew cold and unresponsive, dynamic life became static and the basis of the edifice shook and trembled under the weight of superstitions and dogma.
"These events in themselves predicate the appearance of another Teacher, the coming of a second Architect.  If the sun shines forth this morning from the east and gives light and heat to all the created beings and then sets in the west is it logical to say that we do not need another sunrise, that the world can live without the rays and heat of that life-giving luminary?  Our affirmation or negation will not change in the least the course of the sun.  The sun will rise in spite of all our denials and acceptance.
"A skilled mason builds a building and families live in it for a number of years.  Does any logician reason soundly in concluding that this building will be permanent?  The very word 'construction' presupposes 'destruction'.  It is obvious that some time, in the course of years the edifice will be demolished and another mason will arise and build in its place another building, either after the first type, or of a better and more permanent one.
"Consequently, we see that even the agnostics (really) believe in the necessity of the appearance of wise and extraordinary teachers whose mission it is to lead their fellowmen to higher altitudes of intelligence and wisdom.  In principle they agree with the religionists.  But in mode of expression and phraseology they differ from each other."
__________
The return of Christ-its real meaning
"In the Divine Holy Books there are unmistakable prophecies giving the glad-tidings of a certain Day in which the Promised One of all the Books would appear, a radiant Dispensation would be established, the banner of the most great peace and reconciliation be hoisted and the oneness of the world of humanity proclaimed.  Among the various nations and peoples of the world no enmity or hatred would remain.  All hearts would be united one with another.  These things are recorded in the Taurat, or Old Testament, in the Gospels, in the Qur'án, in the Zend Avesta, in the Books of Buddha and in the Book of Confucius.  In brief, all the Holy Books contain these glad-tidings.  In all of them it is announced that after the world is surrounded by darkness radiance will appear.  For, just as the night when it becomes excessively dark precedes the dawn of a new day so, likewise, when the darkness of religious apathy and heedlessness overtake the world, when human souls become negligent of God, when materialistic ideas overshadow idealism and spirituality, when nations become submerged in the world of matter and forget God-at such a time as this shall the divine Sun shine forth and the Radiant Morn appear."
In Christian churches this anticipation is popularly called the belief in Christ's "second coming".  Ever since the world-
page 147
war books on the "second coming" have been circulated with surprising popularity.  In many churches one of the first questions asked a prospective minister is this:  has he the right views about Christ's return?  Many are sure that the appearance of Christ and the attendant thousand years of peace are right at our doors.  "Millions now living," says one popular preacher, "will never die."
Of course this anticipation has shone in the hearts of the Christians at different periods ever since the ascension of our Lord Christ.  To all the early Christians, as one of the celebrated liberal theologians has said, Christ's first appearance on earth was provisional.  His real and glorious coming was to be sometime in the future.  In the Book of Acts we read that, as the heart-broken disciples after his ascension stood looking steadfastly into heaven, "Behold, two men stood by them in white apparel who also said, 'Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye looking into heaven?  This Jesus, which was received up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye behold him going into heaven."  One of the best attested of early New Testament books, the Book of Revelation, says, "Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they that pierced him."  The Book of Revelation and the Gospels both also proclaim that he shall come like a thief in the night.  Most of the Book of Revelation is a glorious picture of the coming of the Promised Ones.  In the little apocalypse, the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth chapters of Matthew, Jesus tells of the darkening of the sun, the falling of the stars, "the end of the world", or "the consummation of the age", the coming of the Son of Man on the clouds like lightning shining from the east and seen even in the west.
What is the meaning of it all?  One party today takes these prophesies literally.  The other party declares such interpretations to be scientifically impossible.  How could Christ ride on a cloud?  Where would he come from?  Modern astronomy teaches us that above us there is only interstellar space.  If Christ came on the clouds in physically visible glory so that every eye could see him how could he also come as a thief in the night?
The difficulties in the interpretation of these prophesies have led many liberals to declare that the coming of Christ is just a general and gradual outpouring of the spirit of truth.  They quote the Gospel verses, "The Spirit of Truth shall be in you", "The Kingdom of God is within you".  Christ returns in each one of us, they say.
But of course the clear text of the Bible and the whole religious history of mankind proclaim the special outpouring of the divine splendour in great prophets or Manifestations.  They are the collective centres around which all religions revolve, from which all draw their dynamic power.  And the Gospel of John (sixteenth Chapter) clearly says, "The Spirit of Truth shall not speak from himself; but whatsoever things he shall hear these shall he speak."  That is, he is a promised person, the "Prince of the World" (John 14:30) who, because he is pure and perfect like Jesus can receive inspiration, transmit it to the world and lead us into all truth.  In fact, after His Spirit has taught us He will also be within us.  It is no longer I that live but He that liveth in me.
If then we are to reconcile science and religion, if we are to reconcile the passages of the New Testament themselves we must go beneath the letter and find the spiritual significance of these Bible verses.  Jesus, as he himself declared, always spoke in parables.
'Abdu'l-Bahá said, in New York City, "Do not satisfy yourselves with words.  Seek to understand the meanings of the scriptures hidden in the heart of the words.  It is difficult to comprehend the words of even a philosopher; you can
page 148
then see how difficult it is for one to understand the word of God."
What, then, is the real spiritual significance of these prophesies about Christ's second coming?  The explanations of the great Bahá'í teachers, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá are so penetrating, so life-giving that they open a new epoch in the spiritual understanding of the Bible and the sacred books of the world.
__________
Interpretation of the symbols
From the Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Bahá'u'lláh.
"The announcement of the angels to the people of Galilee that 'this Christ will return in the same way, and that he will descend from heaven' is a spiritual message, for when Christ appeared he came from heaven, although he was outwardly born of Mary.  As he said, 'No man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven.'  'I have come from heaven, and will likewise go to heaven.'  By 'heaven' is not meant the infinite phenomenal space but 'heaven' signifies the world of the divine Kingdom which is the Supreme Station and seat of the Sun of Truth.  To be brief:  the mysteries of the Holy Books are many and require explanation and elucidation.  I hope thine insight will be so opened that the divine mysteries may become manifest and clear."
"O thou who believest in the Spirit of Christ, in the Kingdom of God!
"The body is composed, in truth, of corporeal elements and every composition is necessarily subject to decomposition.  But the spirit is an essence simple, pure, spiritual, eternal, perpetual and divine.  He who seeks Christ from the point of view of his body has in truth debased him and has gone astray from him.  But he who seeks Christ from the point of view of his spirit will grow from day to day in joy, in attraction, in zeal, in nearness, in perception and in vision.   You have, then, to seek the Spirit of Christ in this marvellous day.
"The heaven to which Christ ascended is not infinite space.  His heaven is the kingdom of his Lord, the Munificent.  As he said, 'The Son of Man is in heaven.'  It is evident, then, that his heaven transcends the boundaries that surround existence and that he is exalted for the people who adore him.
"Pray God that you may ascend to this heaven and taste of this food.  And know that the people have not understood even to this day the mysteries of the Holy Scriptures.  They believe that Christ was deprived of his heaven when he was in this world, that he had fallen from the heights of his elevation and that later he ascended to this elevated pinnacle, that is to say, toward the heaven which does not exist, for there is only space.  They expect that he will descend from this heaven seated upon a cloud.  They believe that there is in the heavens a cloud upon which he will be seated and by which he will descend:  whereas the clouds are vapours which rise from the earth; they do not descend from the heavens.
"The cloud mentioned in the Holy Scriptures is the human body because it is a veil for them, which, like the cloud prevents them from seeing the Sun of Truth shining in the Horizon of Christ." 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
Question:  "Then you do not mean this phenomenal heaven?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "I mean the heaven from which Christ descended and to which he ascended-the heaven of divine Will, the heaven of spirituality."
"Said Jesus:  'I go and I come again.'  And in another place he said:  'I go and another will come who will tell you all that I have not told you and will finish all that I have said.'  These two state-
page 149
ments are in reality one, were ye to witness the Manifestations of Oneness with the eye of God. ...  If the sun of today says 'I am the sun of yesterday', it is true; and yet if according to daily sequence it says 'I am other than the sun of yesterday', this is also true.  Likewise consider the days:  If it be said that all the days are the same, it is correct and true; and if it be said that according to name and designation they differ from each other, this also is true as thou seest.  For though they are the same, yet in each one there is a name, quality and designation which is different from the other.  By the same method and explanation, understand the station of separation, difference and oneness of the Holy Manifestations.
"As to the words, 'The sun shall be darkened and the moon shall cease to give her light and the stars shall fall from heaven,'-the purport of sun and moon as mentioned in the words of the prophets is not confined to the phenomenal sun and moon which are seen; nay, rather, they have intended for sun and moon manifold meanings. ...  One meaning of the 'sun' is Suns of Truth which dawn from the dayspring of Pre-existence and transmit bounty to all the created beings.  These Suns of Truth arcs the universal manifestations of Divinity. ...  When these Suns arise the world is renewed, the rivers of life flow, the seas of beneficence move, the clouds of grace gather and the breezes of bounty blow upon the temples of beings. ...  In the primary sense sun, moon and stars signify the prophets, the saints and their companions through the light of whose knowledge the worlds of the visible and invisible are enlightened and illumined.
"It is certain that during every subsequent Manifestation ... the sun and moon of the teachings and law under which the people of that age are enlightened and guided become darkened, that is, their efficiency and influence vanish."
"By the darkness of the sun and moon and the falling of the stars is intended the aberration of the divines and the abolition of the laws established in a religion."
"In like manner understand the meaning of (the new heaven and the new earth).  By the earth is meant the earth of knowledge and wisdom; and by heaven the heavens of religion.
"The purpose of these allegorical words ... is to test the servants as mentioned so that the soil of excellent and shining hearts may be distinguished from barren and mortal soil.  This has always been the divine law. ... Shouldst thou make the mirror of the heart pure and clear from the dust of prejudice thou wilt comprehend all the symbols in the sayings of the perfect word of Divinity in every Manifestation and be informed of the mysteries of knowledge.  But unless thou destroyest with the fire of severance the veils of learning which are conventional among the servants thou wilt not attain to the brilliant morn of the ideal knowledge." (Compiled from The Book of Íqán.)
For the fuller explanation of these Bible symbols one should read first 'Abdu'l-Bahá's Some Answered Questions and then Bahá'u'lláh's Book of Íqán.  There these universal minds outline in detail the new philosophy of religious history, the succession of the divine Manifestations, the real meaning of the prophesies in the holy books.


XIII:6, September 1922
page 150
From the unpublished Diary of Ahmad Sohráb
During his sojourn in Palestine with the Centre of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, while the Great War was raging all over the world.
The story of Ismá'íl, the Persian Jew
The carriage was waiting for us at the foot of the mountain.  We entered it and started on our way.  The road was so muddy and slushy that the wheels sank up to their spokes.  In the carriage there was a Persian Jew by the name of Ismá'íl who had been a friend of the Master's for forty years.  He is an orthodox Jew with a strong faith in prophecy, believing firmly that the Messiah will appear in two years.  He knows a great deal about the Bahá'í Revelation and has met Bahá'u'lláh.  Several times he promised the Master that if the Messiah did not appear at such and such a date he would leave Jewish traditions.  But on the grounds that his reckonings were wrong each time he changed the date.  Now he swears that this will be the last date and in two years his promised Messiah will appear and will make all the people Jews.
Since our arrival in the Holy Land the Master has seen him many times and helps him always.  He is an old man with thin, white beard and he has been in 'Akká and Haifa for forty-two years.  Yesterday he came to Abú-Sinán and this morning the Beloved took him back.
"Now tell me, Ismá'íl," the Master said, while patting him gently on back and cheeks, "art thou sure that the Messiah will appear in two years?  If he does not appear at that time wilt thou continue to believe in the Talmud and the Rabbinical lore?  Several times thou hast covenanted with me, and every time thou hast broken the compact.  This must be the very last time; otherwise I will punish thee."  Ismá'íl pledged his word that this would be the last time and that he was sure, very sure, that the Promised One would appear in 1916.
Then the Master spoke about the Muslim and Christian calendars, the prophetic dates mentioned in the Book of Daniel, the scattering of the Jews at the time of Titus, and the destruction of Jerusalem.  Then he asked me to read aloud, for the benefit of Ismá'íl, the articles published in Servati-Founun, especially the translation of his address in the Jewish Synagogue in San Francisco.  As we neared 'Akká he related some funny stories of his experiences in Tiberias in former years.
"O Ismá'íl," he said at last, "through the power of God I have, been able to prove the divine station of Christ to thousands of Jews in America. ...  What can I do with thee?  They are the real Israel.  They are free from prejudice.  But thou art different."
When we reached 'Akká we were glad to find ourselves once more under the sheltering roof of the home of Bahá'u'lláh.  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá entered his room he sat quietly on his divan and said:  "Ali!  We escaped from Abú-Sinán, did we not?  Although the
page 151
weather there was dry and delightful, I did not feel at home.  In this room, the room of the Blessed Perfection, I feel happy and composed.  Nowhere else do I feel so joyous and happy as in this room.  Here, here I realize the peace of the spirit!"
Luncheon was served and Ismá'íl and I found ourselves at the table.  The Master said:  "Hast thou read Vahye Koudek (the little revelation)?  It contains many prophesies concerning events in 'Akká.  It is a wonderful book.  Mírzá Ya'qúb, who was a good Jewish Bahá'í brought it to me.  If you can get this book you will enjoy its contents."
Ismá'íl did not eat the food cooked by the Bahá'ís so the Master with his supreme attention to all details had ordered a dish suitable to his taste.  "We let everyone enjoy freedom of conscience," he said.  "We have no prejudice."
__________
The story of the miser of Balsora
The Master often tells us stories about the misers of different countries.  Here is one of them:
Once upon a time there was a merchant in the city of Balsora.  His name was Ridá.  Although he was very wealthy he was the most close-fisted, narrow-hearted man that ever lived in his town.  For avarice and penuriousness he had become a proverb among his countrymen.  Through his stinginess he made his family suffer hunger and starvation.
In his office he had a clerk to whom he paid a very small salary.  This clerk had a large family and though he practised the greatest economy he could not make both ends meet.  Often he dreamed of a raise in salary, but in vain.  At last an idea flashed into his mind and gave him hope that surely there would be a raise soon.  There was but one more week before New Year's day and the poor clerk thought that if he gave a present to his master he would undoubtedly reciprocate and increase his salary.  Hence, on that very day he went to the market, bought the head of a sheep, cooked it in his oven and carried it on a tray to the house of his master.  The week passed without any sign and finally, on New Year's day he called at the house of the merchant to wish him happiness.  He was most hopeful, and anticipated a bright future.
When he entered the room the merchant greeted him effusively.  This made him more hopeful still.
"I thank you very heartily," the master said to his clerk, "for the gift you sent to our house.  It saved us a great deal of expense, I assure you.  We have been feasting on it for the past week.  The first day we ate the ears; the second day, the eyes; the third day, the skin of the head; the fourth day, the tongue; the fifth day, the meat; the sixth day we cleaned the bones and on the seventh day we ate the brains."
The clerk was so disgusted with this exhibition of stinginess that he left him, and left the town, and sought his fortune elsewhere.
After travelling for several years and acquiring experience as well as riches he returned to his native city and opened a business of his own.  One day as he was walking through the main street his attention was attracted by a most palatial residence.  He peeped through the gate and beheld a most beautiful garden.  He finally inquired from one of the many servants lounging about whose house this was.
"Art thou a stranger?" they asked.
"Not exactly."
"Well, how is it that thou dost not know that this is the house of Kareem, the son of Ridá?"
"Oh," gasped the former clerk, "what the father hoarded the son is spending!"-and disappeared through the crowd.
__________
Another incident regarding Ismá'íl, the Jew
This morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá called us into his room.  Ismá'íl, the Jew, was also present.  The Master was in a jovial mood and asked Ismá'íl whether bread,
page 152
tea and olives were "Kosher".  He replied, "They are Kosher."
"Art thou thyself Kosher or Taref?" 'Abdu'l-Bahá asked him pleasantly.
"I hope I am Kosher.  I wish good to everyone.  I am not seeking to harm any soul.  If a man curse me or beat me I still like him.  I am living according to the religion of my father.  If these things constitute the condition of being Kosher, then I am Kosher."
"Well said," replied the Master, "I know thou art sincere in the profession of thy religion and that is the reason why I love thee so much."
Ismá'íl replied:  "I know one thing.  Any moment I am ready to sacrifice my life for the Master.  For the last forty-two years you have ever been kind to me and on several occasions have saved my life.  This has nothing to do with faith.  This is love.  I declare by Jehovah, if you ask me at this very moment I will die for you gladly, knowing well that I have won the good pleasure of Abraham.  Jacob and Moses."
Then the Master asked Ismá'íl:  "How old was Moses?"
"One hundred and twenty years," he replied.  "But the patriarchs, such as Noah and others lived many hundreds of years."
The Master said.  "The age of those ancient prophets as recorded in the Old Testament is symbolic.  It has a spiritual interpretation.  Wert thou informed of the science of anatomy thou wouldst realize that this human mechanism and these material organs cannot last more than one hundred and twenty years."
Ismá'íl inquired:  "Where is the seat of thought?"
The Master replied:  "It is generally understood that the seat of thought, consciousness and volition is in the brain.  The brain is the organ of the intellect and understanding.  The heart also plays a part through the central nervous system.  Thus the activities of the brain and the heart by means of afferent20 and efferent nerve fibres are linked together.  Figuratively speaking, the brain is like a mirror.  When it is turned toward any object, whether in the east or in the west, that object will immediately be reflected on its surface and consciousness is realized.  In the world of dreams consciousness is awake and works uninterruptedly."
__________
"Come, come, friends," the Master said, as we waited at the threshold.  "Let us talk tonight of the old times."  He asked me what news I had.  I told him I had heard that Badí' Effendi's school in Abú-Sinán had increased in numbers and that it was no more my room but a Bahá'í school.  He laughed and said:  "What dost thou want with a room of stone and clay?  I have prepared for thee glorious rooms the walls, the roofs, the floors, and the furniture of which are of pure deeds and immortal virtues.  Therein thou shalt abide forever.  Badí' Effendi is a capable, efficient teacher and loves the children.  He is striving in service and wishes to perfect the work which he undertakes.  Perfection of work is man's greatest reward.  When a man sees his work perfected and this perfection is the result of incessant labour and application he is the happiest man in the world.  Work is the source of human happiness."
__________
About two hours before sunrise I was called from my bed by one of the two Bahá'ís who spent the night here in the house.  The Master was up; the samovar was boiling and tea was prepared for our delectation.  It was thirst for the "spiritual tea" which awakened me and I dressed hurriedly and made my way through the darkness to the other house.  I opened the door of the blessed room and entered unannounced.  The Master was sitting in his accustomed place on a divan in the corner next to the window.  Only a candle was burning on the oppo-
page 153
site table which was strewn over with books.  There was a pause and a stillness and the dim light added to the mystery and the magic of those sacred moments.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's eyes were closed, his white beard shone; over his countenance was spread the calm of the deep.  His spotless white turban towered above his head and as I looked I beheld his silvery locks flowing beautifully over his broad shoulders.
Out of the unutterable stillness the voice of the Beloved of the hearts was heard.
"Happiness is the ambrosia of the spirit and the nectar of the souls.  It confers on man the boon of immortality and the gift of spiritual vision.  Happiness is the morning star guiding the wandering to the perennial abode of the blessed.  Happiness is the crystalline river flowing from the heavenly mountains through the paradise of the mind and causing to grow upon its banks the imperishable ideals of humanity.  Happiness is the cherubim of the Almighty which inspires mankind to perform feats of self-sacrifice and deeds of disinterested philanthropy.  Happiness is the melodiously singing nightingale which transforms the darkened world of sorrow into the shining realm of celestial beatitude.  Happiness is the surging ocean in the depths of which the diver finds the pearls of resignation and the corals of renunciation.  Happiness is the elysium21 wherein grow the asphodels22 of good-will and the amaranths23 of forgiveness.  Happiness is the heaven of God, the blue fields of which are studded with the bright rolling orbs of satisfaction and the fixed stars of contentment.  Happiness is the scintillating crown of humanity the shining gems of which are the teachings of the past prophets and the principles of his holiness Bahá'u'lláh.
"The happiness of man is not dependent upon outward things such as riches, ornaments and clothes.  It is, however.  dependent upon the susceptibilities of the heart and the attitude of the mind."


XIII:6, September 1922
page 153
Segments of the circle
Marjory Morten
As a moderating influence in those moments when we, as Bahá'ís, approach the danger zone of dogma; as a solace in days of discouragement and at all times when we would make common effort with our fellows, it is well to be aware of the quickening influence on the world at large in the time of the Manifestation.
On the day of a wedding it is not only the bride and bridegroom, their families and their guests who make merry-the servants in the house, the grocer boy at the kitchen door, the very mouse in the pantry cupboard take share in the marriage feast.  If we believe in the oneness of humanity, the interdependence of all creatures, the interaction and reaction of all life forces, we must know that the whole planet is quickened and vitalized in this day.
Although the world may seem to lack mighty protagonists in religious fields a thousand voices are raised by ardent men and women who see clearly that aspect of the truth which impinges on their own fields of endeavour and who faintly glimpse the whole truth.  On every side we find indications of the spirit; in the average individual who cries for things spiritual in revulsion of discouragement against the meliorist24 who would right the
page 154
world through practical efforts; in the economist who realizes our racial interdependence; in the commercial producer who is aware of the pragmatic result of co-operation; in the orthodox churchman who would abandon the old competitive system in spiritual matters, no longer trying to live a holier life than his neighbour but making the greater effort to be good with others.  And in the world of fiction and verse we have many writers who are working for a larger unity:  Well's vision of a World State or World Federation; John Galsworthy who, calling art the pacifier pleads for a closer artistic understanding among nations and sees in art an international agent in bringing races together; Thomas Hardy who sees pure literature and religion as one in that they modulate into each other and who, alive to the failure of the churches to rouse the spirit in a materialistic age is seeking to link religion and science or rationality through the medium of poetry.
Such men would teach a world which for centuries has played with aesthetic as a relaxation after labour; would show the coming generation that true art is not a thing to beguile the hard way of life, to soften and make lovely the routine, but rather an expression of the super-consciousness, a channel between mind and spirit.  All these efforts are good, even if those who make the effort are not fully aware of the spiritual connotation.
And in science it is possible to read great spiritual truths clearly symbolized in terms of scientific formula.  Viscount Haldane in The Reign of Relativity declares that modern men of science realize the entirety of the world-a single whole in which fall matter and mind alike.  And the knowledge of the oneness of the world scientifically is shown in an article on the work of Dr F. B. Sumner in the July Current Opinion.  "We need to remind ourselves that the organism is not an isolated fact in nature, but is part of a complex system of interacting forces.  It is utterly unintelligible, it does not even exist, except in organic relation to the outer world."
Even in Einstein's disconcerting discovery that light rays experience a curvature in passing through a gravitational field, deviating toward a heavenly body in passing it, we can discover a symbol of the attractional curve we must perform as rays in this day of the Sun of Manifestation!
In this country we find hopeful signs in the trend of our magazines.  Such monthlies as Asia and the Geographical Magazine which gather interesting matter from the earth's far corners, and others such as Our World which in covering every phase of world events and activities achieves much more than an assembling of alien facts; makes indeed frank profession of an effort to unite the world.
And there is much food for encouragement in such articles as the very significant editorials of Dr Frank Crane in the July Current Opinion, calling the need of a revival of faith, of spiritual enthusiasm, a "revival whose war cry shall be humanity".  And he is aware of the need of a prophet who will "fire the imagination and conscience of the race with the beauty of human brotherhood."
And if we see on every side a growing knowledge of the need to promote solidarity and more or less conscious effort to build a new structure to house the world family, we find too, scattered chips and fragments of raw material ready for the builders.  The very language of the day enriched and vitalized by the words, love, brotherhood, co-operation, unity, is an indication of the material at hand.  These words have become part of everyone's daily vocabulary.  Old words, to be sure, outgrowths of terms coined perhaps by the first man of vision, but relegated for so long to the word-pouches of the poet, the mystic,
page 155
the dreamer; only used in general with an apologetic reservation or linked with their foster-sister words utopia, millennium.  And if these expressions are in the mouths of all the people of the time-in some cases of course only parrot repetition-the realities they signify must truly be held in the hearts of many men.
These words represent ideals, and ideals whether they are racial memories of past perfections, or dim concepts of a future state are always possible of achievement-and that possibility is near or remote according to the intensity of our desire to achieve.  Now with the release of the great force, the cosmic urge through the appearance of the Manifestation the ideal is straightway translated into a working platform for the work-a-day world; made practical rather than poetic-brought into actuality out of the dream consciousness of the race-these great words love, unity, brotherhood.
Furthermore the name of God and such expressions as we have of God, Divine Guidance, The Power of the Spirit, the Holy Ghost, are no longer confined to religious discussion, and are freed from doctrinaire taint.  Not so long since, at any rate in our western world the word God was rarely heard outside of religious groups and orders entrenched in a common understanding, except in theological argument.
Recently I came upon a letter from the editor of a venerable American magazine, the Atlantic Monthly to Ralph Waldo Emerson.  In this letter he tells Emerson that the magazine has agreed to publish a series of articles by Thoreau and asks him to urge Thoreau to behave himself and not write about God!
Heretofore your average man in casual conversation used the name of the Deity timidly, with self-consciousness, often following it up with the eager assurance that the First Cause or Primal Will were acceptable synonyms.  And how utterly taboo was "Holy Spirit" or "Holy Ghost", narrowed in the popular mind to the Apostolic bounty.
All these words for so long cloistered and shut from common life have in this day suffered a re-birth, become newly informed with spirit, and their habitual use in the time of this Revelation is a manifestation of the divine breaths brought into objectivity and given actual form on this plane.
Yes, we must become increasingly aware of all these indications of the quickening of planetary consciousness.  But this awareness in no degree lessons our responsibility as Bahá'ís, rather does it emphasize our responsibility to sharpen and focalize this consciousness to the most poignant of realizations, to touch the very heart of the race to a recognition of the source of this new life.


XIII:7, October, 1922
page 163
The universal language of the spirit
Talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in his home at Haifa, Palestine, 19 November 1921 at the regular six o'clock evening meeting called "The Persian Meeting".  Mr John D. Bosch of Geyserville, California, was the only occidental present among the sixty friends who met at this time, just nine days before the passing away of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  In fact, this was the last public talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Persian meeting when an occidental attended.  Interpreted by Mírzá Muhammad 'Alí Afnán.
Taken down in Persian by Dr Lutfu'lláh Hakím.
'Abdu'l-Bahá opened the meeting by saying to Mr Bosch:
"Although you are here with these assembled friends and cannot speak with them nor they with you, yet you can speak with one another through the heart.  The language of the heart is even more expressive than the language of the tongue and is more truthful and has a wider reach and a more potent effect."
Mr Bosch said:  "This is a wonderful spiritual experience-to be here with the friends."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then said:  "When lovers meet it may be that they cannot exchange a single word, yet with their hearts they speak to one another.  Thus do the clouds speak to the earth and the rain comes down; the breeze whispers to the trees; the sun speaks to the eyes of men.  Although this is not actual speech yet this is the way in which the hearts of the friends talk together.  It is the harmony between two persons, and this harmony is of the hearts.  For instance, you were in America and I was in the Holy Land.  Although our lips were still yet with our hearts we were conversing together.  The friends here love you very much.  They have a real attachment for you although with the tongue they cannot express it."
Mr Bosch said:  "I am very glad.  I love them too."
'Abdu'l-Bahá then said:  "If this love is real and true, if it is from the heart it will characterize itself by self-sacrifice.  When the attachment is superficial friends do not sacrifice themselves even to the extent of a hair's breadth.
"His holiness the Christ loved both his disciples and believers to such an extent that he sacrificed his life for them.  His holiness the Supreme (the Báb), loved the friends to such an extent that he gave his life for them.  The Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) loved the friends so much that for their sakes he accepted a thousand difficulties and afflictions.  Four times he was exiled.  He was banished from one place to another.
page 164
His properties were confiscated.  He gave all-his family, his relatives, his possessions.  He accepted imprisonment, chains and fetters.  His holy person was imprisoned in the fortress of 'Akká until the last moment of his life.  He was made to suffer more calamities, afflictions and difficulties than could be enumerated.  He had not a moment's rest.  He had not an hour's comfort.  He was continually under the greatest hardships and ordeals.  What great persecutions he endured from his enemies!  What great afflictions he bore from his own relatives!  He accepted all these trials for our sakes so that he might educate us, so that he might make us illumined, so that he might make us heavenly, so that he might change our character, change our lives, so that he might illumine our inmost self.  All these troubles he accepted for our sakes.  He did indeed sacrifice his life for us.  This love is the real love.  This is the inner attachment and the genuine friendship.  This is the love which sacrifices one's all, one's life.  This is the reality of love.  He accepted all these troubles.
"All this, cannot be accomplished by merely talking.  It cannot be done by saying.  'I love you', or, 'How is your health', or, 'You are my beloved', or, 'You are esteemed'.  This is not love.  This is an attachment that will break in the testing.  This is why one sees persons associating with one another, appearing to be enwrapped with one another.  Each seems to sacrifice himself for the other.  But when they part they become as strangers.  This is human love.  It is not spiritual love; it is not divine love; it has no real foundation and in the time of testing it will fall and disappear.
"If you should go to Persia and mingle with the friends there and should be in the house of any one of the friends, and people should come in to take you to kill you, you would then witness how the owner of the house would sacrifice himself for you.  He would sacrifice himself for you rather than allow even one hair of your head to be hurt.  This is love!  It has happened often in Persia that the friends have sacrificed themselves for one another.  This has happened many times.  This love is the love of God.
"The King of Martyrs and the Beloved of Martyrs were two souls who were greatly honoured among the people.  They were very wealthy.  They were extremely comfortable.  The people pillaged all their property.  They put them in chains.  They put them in prison.  The Sháh of Persia decreed that they should be killed; that they should either deny their faith or be killed.  The notables came to them and advised them to renounce their faith.  The friends came and advised them; even the government advised them to recant so that they might save their lives.  But they would not deny.  They continued to cry aloud, 'Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!' (O, Thou Glory of the Most Glorious!)  And so they were martyred.
"This is the love of God!  This is the love of the heart!  This is divine love!"


XIII:7, October, 1922
page 171
From the Diary of Ahmad Sohráb
Written in Palestine during the Great War.
While we were drinking our tea, 'Abdu'l-Bahá came down and sat at the door of the house speaking with an Arab friend, Ahmad Effendi Jerah.  He had been to dine with Sálih Muhammad, and it was late at night when he returned.  Khusraw preceded him carrying a lamp to light the way, as it was very dark.  Some of the believers were still waiting for him when he came in.  He asked them to wait for a moment, as he was longing to see them, and then went upstairs.  In a short time he descended, and we were all waiting, many of us sitting on the floor, as there were not enough chairs.
"When people invite me alone to their houses," he said, "I ask them to prepare only one dish.  Simplicity in food is best.  But when they invite others beside me, I do not interfere with their arrangements."
Then he asked whether anyone had come from Abú-Sinán.
"During the days of the Blessed Perfection," he continued, "when I got up in the morning, the first thing I did was to inquire about the health of all the believers, one by one; and then I called on those who were sick to see how they were.  If their indisposition was slight, I cared for them myself; otherwise I sent for the doctor.  Then, this duty performed, I went to the school and examined the pupils.  To those who were doing well I gave money or gifts; others I encouraged to push forward.  Thus all the students who were graduated from that school received much praise, and were given scholarships in Damascus and Constantinople."
"In every undertaking, constant vigilance and attention are necessary, for, no matter how perfect an organization, if negligence creeps in, it will little by little lose its efficiency.  If a piece of farm land is left to take care of itself,
page 172
or if the supervision of the farmer is slackened, the farm will be either abandoned or it will turn into a thorny patch."
"I have carried in my mind for some time an educational system, but so far there have been no means for its realization.  If that system were once beaten into workable shape, in two years' time the children would have studied four languages.  At the age of ten they would study sciences; and at the age of twelve they would be graduated.  I wanted to establish such a trial school of eighty-one pupils, all six years of age, the children to be brought from Persia and 'Ishqábád, the teachers to be engaged and transported from America.  But a number of unforeseen difficulties have prevented me."
__________
The Master spoke this morning to Mírzá Badí' about his school for the children.  He said:  "I know thou art exerting thyself in the instruction of the children.  The life of man must be productive of some results, otherwise his non-existence is better than his existence.  As I said before, this teaching of the children is a service to the Blessed Perfection.  Whosoever serves the world of humanity in this or any other way is serving His holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Your heavenly reward is with him.  The education of children is one of the most great services.  All these children are mine.  If they are educated and illumined, it is as though my own children were so characterized.  They will become the servants and the maid-servants of the Cause of God, the gardeners in the vineyard of the Kingdom, and the lights of the assemblage of mankind."
Then he spoke with Shaykh Yúsúf about his ('Abdu'l-Bahá's) own education-of how he was an exile and a prisoner from the time that he was nine years old and consequently never entered even the common school.  This is an historical fact, and there are many people still living who bear witness to this fact.
Then he explained in detail the puzzling question of the "Trinity" and demonstrated from both a scientific and religious standpoint that "trinity" not only exists in every religion, but in philosophy as well.  In the Mosaic dispensation there was (1) Elohim, the " I AM", (2) the burning bush and (3) Moses; in Christianity, (1) the Father, (2) the Holy Ghost and (3) the Son; in Islám, Alláh, Gabriel and Muhammad.  In philosophy we say, the mover, the motion and the moved; the cause of causes, the cause and the effect; the Illuminator, the illumination and the illuminated; the Creator, the creation, the created; the teacher, the knowledge, the student; the Giver of bounty, the bounty, and the recipient of the bounty.  In principle, every religionist believes in this explanation in so far as it applies to the founder of his own faith; but when this same principle is applied to the founder of another religion, he refuses to accept it.  Thus, while they are agreed as to reality, they disagree in mere names and historical personalities.
__________
At a quarter past two in the afternoon we left 'Akká in the carriage and started on the never-to-be-forgotten drive along the horseshoe beach toward Haifa.  The sea was smooth and the weather was bright and clear-quite transparent.
"Since my return last year," the Master said, "I have not driven along this shore because the train service was so much more comfortable.  Now we have returned to our original way of travelling.  I judge by the traces of the wheels on the sand that there is already quite a regular schedule established."
On the way we saw many detachments of soldiers going this way or that, and many of them stopped to salute the Master.  We proceeded on our drive and finally came upon companies of fishermen who had cast their nets into the sea.  Wide-spreading, broad nets they were,
page 173
and some of the men were drawing in the ropes.  But the nets were still far out in the sea.  The net of another group could be seen, being brought nearer and nearer to the shore; and still another group had landed their catch and were on the eve of departure.  When we reached the second group, the Master asked Isfandíyár to stop the horses so that he might watch the proceedings.  The net was at last drawn out upon the beach, and one's heart was touched to see the great mass of palpitating, quivering little fishes.  There were actually thousands of them.  As I looked I was reminded of the days of Christ and his fishermen disciples.  I spoke of the similarity of the scene to the Master.  My few simple words suggested the subject, and he delivered a most remarkable talk as the carriage rolled over the hard, white sand.  He said:
"His holiness, Christ, because of the vocation of his disciples, gave them the title of 'fishers of men'; but the Blessed Perfection designated the Bahá'ís as the 'vivifiers of the world'.
"Today this world is like a rolling, tumultuous sea.  The Bahá'ís are practised sailors and trained fishermen who, with the net of the Love of God and the strength of the Word of God, deliver the poor fish from the whirlpool of destruction and bring them to the haven of safety and salvation.  Although the fish of the sea, when once drawn out of the water, die, yet the fish of humanity, when they rise out of the sea of darkness, passion and lust, are immediately transformed into sweet-singing nightingales soaring in the atmosphere of holiness.  They break forth into charming melodies and give joy to many hearts.  The fish of the sea of nature are blind, deaf and mute; but when they enter the ocean of God they become seeing; hearing and eloquent.  The Bahá'ís are displaying great effort and they manifest far-reaching magnanimity.  The confirmation of the Blessed Beauty is their net; unity and concord is their bait; attraction and enkindlement is their trap, service and self-sacrifice is their support.  They cast their net into the great, turbulent sea and day by day they deliver new fishes.  What delightful service is this to the world of humanity!  What fruitful exertion is this in the universe of God!  What noble striving is this in the path of the Kingdom!  What heavenly privilege is this in the promulgation of truth!  What divine splendour in the illumination of the souls of mankind!  The apostles of his holiness Christ were very religious; very faithful, very spiritual and severed from all else save God.  They were inspired by the breath of the Holy Spirit, and laboured with heart and soul for the diffusion of the lights of the Kingdom of the Father.  They strove for the progress of their souls, to be characterized with the qualities of loyalty and faithfulness and with whole-hearted sincerity.  They fished by day and by night.  They took no rest nor did they seek after any comfort.  The Bahá'ís must walk in their footsteps, imbue themselves with their endurance and learn their patience and long-suffering.  Let them not lose their courage in the face of difficulties.  Let them be the fishermen of the sea of spirituality.  Let them sail on the ocean of the world of humanity in the swift-moving vessels of assurance and certainty.  Let them save the half-famished fish from the sea of doubt and hesitation and instruct them in the teachings and principles of God."


XIII:7, October, 1922
page 180
The wisdom of the Apostles
From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
"In order to spread and teach the cause of God two of the Apostles went to the city of Antioch.  No sooner had they arrived than they started to exhort and give counsel to the people.  As the inhabitants of the city were totally uninformed of the divine principles they started to censure and arraign them, which finally ended in their persecution and torture and imprisonment.  The details of these sad events did not reach the Disciples and thus the way of association and communication was entirely barred.
"But when Peter heard about it he started for that country without delay.  Having entered the city he commenced in the beginning to associate and fraternize with the people until, little by little, he became the loving companion and comrade of the nobles and ministers.  In a short space of time he became well known for his piety, godliness, virtue, explanations, knowledge, perfections and excellences of the world of humanity.  Finally he became acquainted with the king of that country and consorted with him with joy and fragrance.  When Peter saw that the king was relying upon him with the utmost confidence, trust and assurance,-one night apropos of some question, he brought in the name of the Apostles.  The king told him that some time ago two such ignorant and illiterate souls had entered his city and, having begun to deliver seditious speeches, he had ordered his officers to arrest them and put them under chains and fetters.  His holiness Peter expressed a passing wish to meet them.  The king commanded his attendants to bring them in to the audience chamber.  According to the requirements of the place and time Peter appeared not to recognize them and then asked:
"'Who are you?  Where do you come from?'
"They answered:  'We are the servants of his holiness the Spirit of God (Christ), and we come from Jerusalem.'
"Then he asked about his holiness, the Spirit:  'Who is he?'
"They said:  'He is the Promised One of the Bible and the Desired One of all the servants.'
"Afterward, in the spirit of the antagonist, he asked them the universal and particular questions and at every step contended with them.  Often the very nature of the question gave them a clue as to how to answer.
"In short, one by one, he put the doubts and scruples of the people in the form of questions and they gave convincing answers.  Now and then he would accept a number of their explanations, and anon, he would wave aside a set of others bringing forth counter propositions so that the audience might not find out that he also was one of them.  In brief, several nights were spent in these interrogations and answers, now in refutation, again in acceptance, then in discussion and anon in controversial contention until all those who were present became fully informed of the fun-
page 181
damental principles of God and all their uncertainties were dispelled.  Then, on the last evening he dramatically announced that truly all that (they had) heard conformed with reality; and everyone agreed with him.  Then, and not until then everyone realized that this third person was the friend of the first two souls.  For this reason it is revealed in the blessed verse:  'We have glorified them by the appearance of a third person.'
"This story illustrates the meaning of wisdom.  Therefore the teacher must speak according to the acceptable standard of the place and the time so that his words may affect the hearts and the people may understand his address.  Teaching the Cause of God in this manner will produce fruits.  We must not remain stationary and silent.  If the thousand-voiced nightingale does not break into musical trills and rapturous melodies it is like a mute sparrow.  If the thrush of the rose garden of significances does not sing tuneful lays and sweet airs it is the speechless, wingless jaybird.  If the dove of the garden of mysteries does not coo it is the raven of the wretched ash heap.  If the peacock of the Paradise of immortality does not display its multi-coloured plumage it is the black raven of the desolate ruin of mortality.  Consequently, if ye are of the birds of the gardens of sanctity flutter ye your wings and soar heavenward.  If ye are of the nightingales of the Ridván of the Lord of Lords then sing and warble His glorification.  If ye are of the lovers of the countenance of the Almighty then raise your voices and demonstrate your sincerity.  If ye are of the wooers of the face of the Beloved then cry and weep disconsolately, so that you may throw an earthquake into the pillars of the world, burn the hearts of mankind with the burning fire of God's conflagration, intoxicate and exhilarate all the lovers and yearning ones with the wine of glory and attain to the ultimate hope of the favoured ones and the highest aspiration of the sincere ones.
Recorded and translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.


XIII:7, October, 1922
page 182
Ios, the shepherd boy
Some parables concerning the laws of the spiritual life.
Ios was a shepherd boy who tended his flocks in the valleys and on the sloping hills of Persia.  He was poor and simple, and knew no life but the care of his sheep, but one love he had and one great longing-it was to behold the face of his King.  He had never seen this One of whose greatness and goodness he heard wonderful tales, and he felt that he would live content and die happy if he could but once behold his face.
One day Ios heard that the King with his retinue would pass on the highroad not far from his pasture.  Shaken with the intensity of his love he left everything and stationed himself on the road.  At last the Royal Procession appeared, haught boys on horseback, soldiers and buglers glittering and gorgeous in the sunshine.
Ios' eyes gazed past all this to the royal equipage slowly approaching, with flushed face and throbbing heart he watched for the face he had waited and longed for all his life.
Seeing that the procession was stopped in its progress the King enquired the cause and was informed that a poor shepherd boy stood in the way and begged to see him.  The King commanded that the boy be brought, and Ios trembling with joy came to the side of the carriage, and gazed long and steadfastly on the face he adored.  The King amazed at this ardent look said "Who art thou I?"  "Ios, the shepherd boy, my King," he replied.  "What dost thou seek from me?"  "Oh my King," he said, "All my life I have longed for thee.  The utmost desire of my heart has been to behold thy face.  Now I am happy and content, I can return to my humble life forever blest since I have beheld thee."
The King was greatly touched and looking long and earnestly as the boy passed on his way.
But the memory of Ios haunted him-such love he had not known.  All those who surrounded him lived by his favours and bounty, but here was one who sought nothing, asked nothing-who could live and die on the memory of his face.
II
The King's yearning for Ios grew so strong that at last he sent for the shepherd boy and had him brought to the palace.  Ios came with eager joy and presented himself trembling and radiant, before the royal presence.  Then the King was greatly pleased with Ios and made him the guardian of his treasure and reposed in him a high trust.
But those who had lived by the King's favour were filled with jealousy and tried to find some fault in Ios so that they might destroy him in the eyes of the King.  They watched day and night and soon they found a flaw.  In the silence of the night when all were sleeping they saw Ios creep stealthily forth, wind his way through the palace and enter a small room far up under the roof.  "Ah," they said, "He is robbing the treasury and storing away the treasure in a secret place."  Then they hastened with the news to the King.  That night he watched with them and saw Ios steal away to his secret hiding place.  The King followed, threw open the door and entered the
page 183
room.  It was bare and empty, but on the wall hung the shepherd's coat Ios had worn and his crook with which he tended his flock.  "What is the meaning of this, Ios," he exclaimed, "That thou dost creep to this room silently in the dead of night, and thus arouse suspicion when I have so trusted thee?"  "Oh, my King," replied Ios, "When first I beheld thee I was a poor ignorant shepherd boy, but thou hast raised me to this lofty state through thy pure bounty and generosity, therefore, I never wish to forget from what I came, but to remain ever humble and grateful to thee.  Thus I come each night to reflect on what I was and what Thou has made me through Thy bounty, generosity and favour.
III
One day while the King was riding with his courtiers and favourites he opened a wallet in his saddle, and cast handfuls of precious jewels in the road.  His friends stopped, dismounted and gathered the gifts scattered by his loving hand.  Ios alone remained at his side with his eyes fastened on the beloved face, never glancing away.  Then the courtiers murmured saying, "See Ios, he despises the gifts of the King and will not trouble himself to attain them."  The King looked at him and smiling said, "How is this, Ios, dost thou despise my gifts?"
"Never have I desired anything from thee, but to behold thy face, this has been and ever shall be sufficient for this servant."
IV
In Persia they have a great variety of delicious melons and it is the custom in this season to hold feasts and serve this abundant fruit to the guests.  When the season came and the melons were ripe the King held a feast and invited many people.  Ios was absent engaged on some service, but presently the guests saw that there was one melon left uncut.  Then they murmured among themselves saying, "You will see that this melon, which is no doubt very sweet and delicious is reserved for the Beloved of the King," and soon the King sent for Ios, and cutting the melon gave him a piece saying "Thou, too, must partake of my feast.  I have kept this melon for Thee."  The King also took a piece, but when he tasted it he exclaimed "This melon is as bitter as gall, how couldst thou eat it, Ios?"  But the boy replied, "All my life I have received sweet from thy hand, now if thou dost give me bitter shall I refuse it?  For bitter is sweet from the hands of my King."
V
That which the King valued in all his domains was the Royal Gardens, which were vast and very beautiful with trees and flowers, lakes and fountains, and where every living thing was safe and protected, for it was forbidden therein to kill.  And Ios so lived in the King's heart, was so loved and trusted that he made him the guardian and custodian of this Garden of Life and Beauty, which was the highest honour in his Kingdom.  Then Ios faithfully guarded his trust.
One day as Ios was walking in the beautiful Gardens, the King's son, who had been jealous of him crept stealthily up behind him and swiftly shot an arrow from his bow and fled.  It pierced the breast of a swan and the red blood flowed down the pure white breast into the water, and the swan swayed and drooped and died.
Ios stood aghast with grief and horror, gazing at the swan then at the bow lying in the path at his feet.  As he stooped to pick it up a gardener approached and accused Ios of killing the swan.  Then the man hastened to the Royal Presence and told what Ios had done.  The King summoned him and said "What hast thou done?"  Ios bowed his head in silence.  "Speak," the King commanded, "Who has slain the swan?"  But Ios would not speak.  The King's heart was breaking and he exclaimed, "Thy silence condemns thee.  If thou dost not speak and justify thyself I shall banish thee forever from my
page 184
face."  Ios lifted his eyes and looked long on the King's face, then meekly bowed his head and went out from his presence and went alone into exile.
Time passed and the Prince's conscience gave him no rest.  He saw how his Father grieved for Ios, and at last he heard that Ios was dying of a broken heart in his lonely but far away.  Smitten with remorse he threw himself at his Father's feet and confessed to having killed the swan.  The King in great grief sprang up and cried out, "Take me to Ios."  And when he came in haste to the but he found him dying.  He rushed to him, clasped him in his arms, kissed his brow, his lips, while his tears rained on his face.  "Oh, Ios, my servant, my Beloved, thou must not leave me; I love thee, thou hast sacrificed thy life for my son."  And Ios, lying in his arms, gazing upon his face exclaimed:  "I die in Paradise upon Thy Breast, my King!"
(These stories of Ios were told by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Lua Getzinger and are here transcribed from memory by May Maxwell.)


XIII:7, October, 1922
page 184
The Bahá'í cause and the Chinese people
...
page 185
...
The Chinese are just waiting for the universal light of the Bahá'í Glad Tidings.  "China, China, China-ward the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh must march," says 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "Where is that holy, sanctified Bahá'í to become the teacher of China!  China has most great capability.  The Chinese people are most simple-hearted and truth-seeking.  The Bahá'í teacher of the Chinese people must first be imbued with their spirit, know their sacred literature, study their national customs and speak to them from their own standpoint and their own terminologies.  He must entertain no thought of his own but ever think of their spiritual welfare.  In China one can teach many souls and train and educate such divine personages that each one of them may become the bright candle of the world of humanity.  Truly, I say, the Chinese are free from any deceit and hypocrisies and are prompted with ideal motives.  Had I been feeling well I would have taken a journey to China myself!"
One day on Mount Carmel 'Abdu'l-Bahá told of his plans to go to China in the days of his imprisonment and exile, of how he longed to travel to all nations in the service of the Kingdom.  But for forty years he was a prisoner.  He prefaces his story with these words about how Bahá'u'lláh loved to describe the glory of teaching:
"Whenever during his lifetime the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh) desired to signalize anyone with his special favour he encouraged him to go forth and teach the Cause of God.  When he spoke to one of the pilgrims or wrote to a far-off Bahá'í concerning the promotion of the Cause, inciting the former and the latter to arise and deliver the message of the Kingdom everyone felt instinctively that these souls were elected, the chosen ones and that the glances of mercifulness had encircled them.  It is noteworthy to remark that most of the general epistles of Bahá'u'lláh, embracing comprehensive teachings and principles are revealed in the names of the teachers of the Cause.  A number of rare, spiritual souls having consecrated themselves to the promulgation of the glad-tidings of the Kingdom were peculiarly favoured by him.  Whenever their names were mentioned in his presence his countenance became all wreathed in smiles.  This was the most notable proof and clear evidence of the favour and bestowal of the Blessed Perfection.  When he happened to discourse on teaching and teachers he waxed most eloquent, his words inspired the hearts, his face became radiant with the anticipated joy of a humanity instructed in the laws of God and the application of the laws of nature, and his unquestioned; divine authority filled the listeners with such fiery enthusiasm for the promotion of the Cause that they were ready to give up their lives to execute his command.  He used to say that the teachers were the Isráfíls of God who, with the sound of their trumpets blow the spirit of life into the dead bodies of mankind.
"One day, in the course of his talk, he praised so much the lives and services of the teachers of the Cause and expressed such high appreciation of their unselfish lives that, although I was a prisoner, I said to myself:  'O! That I might be confirmed in this!'  Then I thought I might go to Káshghar, one of the provinces of China and a place not visited up to that time by any Bahá'í teacher.  I was going to travel alone and with no baggage-only a handbag containing a number of tablets and books and papers and pens.  I secured even my passport; the old Muftí stood as my guarantor.  When the crafty Mutasarrif, Ibráhím Páshá, heard about this he sent his secretary to me with the message:  'I have heard that your Excellency contemplates taking a long journey.  I will
page 186
not be so disrespectful or discourteous as to thwart your plan or in any way hinder your departure but, as I am the Governor of this province, I am responsible to the central government for everything that happens here.  Therefore, it will be but my official duty to send a cable concerning your departure as soon as you set your feet on the steamer.'  I was familiar with the fortuitous ways of oriental expression.  So I saw that this was a polite way of saying:  'We will not let you go!'  Hence I deferred my departure to a more opportune time."
"China is the country of the future.  I hope the right kind of teacher will be inspired to go to that vast empire to lay the foundation of the Kingdom of God, to promote the principles of divine, civilization, to unfurl the banner of the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh and to invite the people to the banquet of the Lord!"
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá recorded and translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.


XIII:7, October, 1922
page 186
The morn of unity
From the Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
"O ye friends of God!  The morn of guidance is radiant and the hearts of the people of faithfulness are like unto a garden.  The divine breeze is blowing, the Spirit of God is manifest, the faded hearts are quickened and rejuvenated. ...  Turn your faces toward the rose garden of God for, verily, the fragrances of the Holy Spirit are passing by.  Gaze ye toward the Kingdom of Abhá for his Ancient Bestowal is descending.  Look ye up toward the Supreme Horizon for the Sun of Hope is dawning.  This bestowal is one of the most particular gifts of this great cycle for from its beginning to its end it is the dawning place of the penetration of the lights of the Ancient Beauty.  Therefore appreciate ye the value of these times and let not the opportunity slip by from your hands, for the zephyr of the morn of unity is blowing and the rays of the Sun of Reality are shining from all horizons of the universe with universal force.  This century is the beginning of all future generations.  The standards of guidance shall wave over all countries, yet in this period the power of confirmation is most perfect and well nigh inexhaustible and the lights of unity are irradiating from the hearts of men.  To take one step in this day is equal to one hundred thousand steps in the future and to inhale one breath in this age is compared to one hundred thousand breaths in the future, for this is the beginning of the age of grace, the time of the downpour of the rain and the season of the heavenly spring."
[Page 18 from Japan will Turn Ablaze has been omitted.]
page 187
...
"The germinating and growing trees join the babbling brooks and the sighing pines in the singing of their anthems.  May you also resuscitate the dead souls with the wafting of the breeze of divine grace.  Praise be to God that the bounty and bestowal of the Blessed Perfection are with us; his confirmation, his spirituality, his advice, his exhortations are with us.
"He has given us an irresistible power which all the nations of the world cannot withstand.  May you ever be under the protection of God.  May the Almighty Father assist and protect you.  I shall never forget you.  I shall ever remember you.  You will always be in my thoughts.  I hope you will not forget me.  I trust that the ideal bonds, the spiritual communication may ever become stronger and firmer.  These celestial ties are eternal.  Whenever I supplicate and entreat toward the Kingdom of Abhá I shall beg for you confirmation and assistance, that the door of all good may be opened before your faces so that each one of you may become a sign of guidance and a flag of peace.
"The portraits which are drawn on the canvas of the world have become very antiquated.  Now you must become inspired to paint new life-like portraits in the frame of the universe with the delicate brush of the spirit."
Recorded and translated by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.


XIII:7, October, 1922
page 187
Bahá'í notes
[Extract]
page 188
Just before his ascension 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote to the new friends in Korea to whom Miss Alexander had told the Glad Tidings of Unity these stirring words:
"Your heartfelt sincere greetings have reached 'Abdu'l-Bahá's ears and your message gave great spiritual happiness.
"Praise be to God!  That celestial light guided and led you to the Sun of Reality, bestowed everlasting life and granted heavenly illumination.  Ye are like seedlings which have been planted by the hand of Bestowal in His spiritual rose-garden.  It is my hope that through the warmth of the Sun of Reality, the pouring down of the showers of mercy and the wafting of the breezes of bestowal ye may progress day by day so that each one may become a blessed tree full of leaves and flowers and may cast your shade over great multitudes.
"The graces of the Kingdom of Abhá are the rays of the Sun of Reality.  It illumines the earth and heavens, makes the star a shining moon, turns the speck into a huge mountain, bestows strength upon the weak, gives everlasting healing to the sick, grants heavenly treasures to the poor, confirms the oppressed ones to (win) everlasting glory and turns the people of darkness into the people of light.
"O heavenly friends!  The doors of heaven have been opened, the lights of God have shone forth and the heavenly call has been raised.  Summon ye all humanity to listen to this heavenly call and invite them to the celestial world so that they may find a new spirit and attain to a new life.  In all conditions my heart and spirit are with you."


XIII:8, November 1922
page 207
The plain of 'Akká
Haifa, Palestine, July 1922.
On the afternoon of Thursday 6 July, Fugeta and I went to 'Akká, or rather to Bahjí.  Isfandíyár drove us, and the young man who looks after the electric lights, I think his name is Husayn, went with us because the next day was his day for charging the batteries at Bahjí.  We left the Pilgrim House at about five o'clock.  That is certainly the ideal time of day to make the drive from Haifa to Bahjí.  The trip was beautiful-the sea was so blue, the air so fresh and cool.  We talked as we went, sometimes in English, and occasionally Fugeta had a bit of conversation in Persian with the others.  Some of that I could understand, and some I could not.  At about six-thirty the sun sank, and a mass of great, billowy clouds covered the place where the sun had been.  In the east the moon was already quite high, very large and bright.
In 'Akká we drove through the market, to buy some watermelons, and then out through a break in the city walls.  There we could see the different walls very well.  First there is a heavy wall, then a very deep moat, forty or fifty feet wide, I should guess; another heavy wall, a second moat; a third wall, and another big ditch.  The big ditches or moats are quite dry now, but in ancient times they were filled with water as a protection.  As one comes out on to the plain of 'Akká one can see in the distance the hill from which Napoleon tried to conquer the fortress.
In the twilight the drive from 'Akká to Bahjí is very lovely, everything is so quiet and peaceful.  There are faint sounds of men and animals softened by the distance, a truly pastoral scene.  The Roman aqueduct along the road is very interesting.  It does not go back to the time of the Romans, but has been built since the time when Bahá'u'lláh first came to 'Akká.  The picturesque old towers are not merely ornamental, as I had supposed, but are for the purpose of lifting the water, and then dropping it with force so that it will go along again for a distance without losing all its momentum.  There seems to be a very plentiful supply of water, and the people all along the course of the aqueduct use it, and there is plenty of it for use in 'Akká.
page 208
It must have been seven-thirty or eight o'clock when we reached Bahjí.  The friends there were not expecting us, but they gave us a most cordial welcome.  We found there the very pleasant keeper of the Tomb, 'Abdu'l Kázim, his young helper, and an Arab policeman.  We people from Haifa made a group of seven people, and a very good time we had.  I cannot find words to describe how fine a man 'Abdu'l Kázim seems to me.  He is so pleasant in manner, so sincere, so cheerful, so devoted to his work there.  When I thanked him for things that he did for me he insisted that I must not thank him, for he was the servant of Bahá'u'lláh, and therefore my servant.  When I told him how lovely the garden about the Tomb was, he said, "Yes, it is the garden of Bahá'u'lláh, and therefore it must be beautiful!"  I shall always remember him as one of the loveliest Bahá'ís I have ever met.  I think that 'Abbás Qulí at the Tomb on Mount Carmel is just as splendid and attractive and loveable, but I cannot speak English with him, and so I cannot get so well acquainted with him.  'Abdu'l Kázim speaks quite a bit of English.
After we had rested a little while, Fugeta and I went into the Tomb.  It was dark by that time, and the lights in the Tomb were lighted.  The thing which seemed to me most beautiful about the lighting was that the lights were so placed that they shone out from under a fern in the centre of the little inner garden.  The light came out soft and green through the fronds of fern.  The lights were not all on when we first went in, and I liked it better with the softer light.  We stayed there in prayer for perhaps half an hour.  There are so many people, so many causes to pray for, as well as for oneself, that time goes very, very quickly!  Afterward, Husayn turned on all the lights so that I might see them.  They turn into a blaze of light, and made me think of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's comment, when he was in America, that Bahá'u'lláh always loved light; that they might be economical about everything else, but that he always told them to have much light about him.  Fugeta also drew my attention to the vase that the American Bahá'ís had sent in memory of the Master's visit to America.  The vase was made by Tiffany, and it is very beautiful.  It is of bronze, with insets of jewels and cloisonné25 work.  The latter is of a most exquisite blue, shading off into yellow, as it curves up the slender neck of the vase.  It is a very, very lovely thing, as is worthy of such a place.
When we returned to the house supper was not quite ready, and I sat out on the little porch, and talked to Isfandíyár, in a wild mixture of English and Persian.  However, I learned several new Persian words, and he learned their English equivalents.  I like Isfandíyár very much.  He is full of fun, devoted to the Master.  He certainly gives himself absolutely in service, now to the family of the Master.  He is usually busy from early morning till night, driving the Family or the friends to near and distant places.  Fugeta said that taking the two of us to Bahjí, and then to 'Akká the next morning was quite a vacation for him.
We had a delicious supper, and were very happy at it.  We had three lots of food-which we shared together-what Fugeta and I had brought from Haifa, what the policeman had prepared, and what 'Abdu'l Kázim and his companion had cooked.  We had little pats of chopped meat, stewed okra, meat browned in the pan, with tomatoes on top, olives, "mast" (something like Dutch cheese), watermelon, bread, and a "sweet" made of sugar and the ground seeds of some plant.  The Arab policeman seemed a very pleasant, friendly fellow.  The men say that he is the nicest of the policemen who have been stationed there at the Tomb.
After supper Fugeta and I went for a walk, down through the great pine trees, and beyond.  The night was absolutely perfect.  The moon was almost full, and shed a soft, clear light down on the fields and orchards.  Everything showed clearly, and the view of the Tomb through the trees was beautiful.  It was the most calm and quiet of any evening scene I have ever had the joy of seeing.  Occasionally some bird would call from a
page 249
near-by tree.  In the distance a shepherd was playing on a pipe, and its notes came to us softly and sweetly.  It was so exquisite that it seemed a pity to go in and leave it, for the mere purpose of going to sleep.
I had a nice big room, with three windows, below which there was a wide divan.  Before I went off to sleep I sat a little while in the window looking at the soft radiance of the moonlight, and listening to the sweetness of the shepherd's pipes.
I slept so well that I did not waken until five-thirty, which is late as people count rising-hours here!  After breakfast Fugeta and I went into the Tomb for a little while.  It is very beautiful there in the cool of the morning.  Immediately after that Isfandíyár had the carriage ready for us to go to 'Akká.  There he drove us directly to the house which I had visited before, in which Bahá'u'lláh had lived for fourteen years-nine of them in one room.  It has a beautiful view of the sea and of Haifa in the distance.  We met several friends there, and talked to them a few minutes, but did not stay long.  Everywhere in 'Akká the friends were the personification of hospitality, asking us to stay to lunch, and if we would not do that, to at least come in long enough to have some tea.  From there we walked about the town, first going to see the old Bahá'í Pilgrim House.  To reach that one climbs a long flight of steps, and comes out on a wide balcony built about four sides of a large square court-yard.  The place is a sort of apartment house!  Opening onto the balcony are various "houses", perhaps six or seven on a side.  It was one of these that used to be the Pilgrim House.  Then many of the other apartments were occupied by Bahá'í families.  The Master used to go to the Pilgrim House in the morning, and all the friends from the different houses would come and gather about him there.  It is a wonderfully interesting old place.  Up till quite recently there have been Bahá'í families there on the court, but now they have all moved away.  After we left the balcony we went down onto the wharf, from which we could see the outer wall of the Pilgrim House which has a small balcony on that side overlooking the sea.  We then went through the bazaars.  They were most interesting, especially one very old one, under a series of high arches.  In one shop we met a very old Bahá'í, who had been Bahá'u'lláh's cook, in the time when the friends were in the barracks.  I think that he and the Greatest Holy Leaf are almost the only survivors of that group.  He was as cordial as all the friends are, and said that he would be very unhappy if we did not come and sit down in the shop a while, and he would make us some tea.  I was very glad to see that old man!
From the bazaars we went to the old house within the prison walls, where the Master used to live, the one with the garden in the centre, with the tall date palm, and the long flight of steps leading up to the Master's room.  There are houses on three sides of it, and a high wall on the fourth side.  The garden in the centre is very well kept, and a Bahá'í friend of 'Akká who had joined us said that the garden had been just like that when the Master was there.  And there was the tall date palm that I had seen in the pictures.  There are two long flights of steps, in opposite corners of the courtyard.  In the corner directly opposite that is another flight of steps, and at the top of that is the door that led directly into the Master's rooms.  It is now overgrown with a great bougainvillaea vine which shadows it completely.  Apparently that entrance is not now used at all, and the vine is much in need of trimming.  We went part way up the stairs, but the door was locked and so we had to content ourselves with looking at the outside of it.  The rooms in that corner face the sea.  We left the court through a gate in a heavy fortress wall.  Outside is another wall, beyond that a narrow opening, then another wall, and then the sea.  The friend who was with us pointed out the place under some trees where the Master used to pitch his tent, and receive visitors.  It is all just as Mr Chase described it in In Galilee.
It was not far from that house until we came to the barracks.  This time we entered it from a new entrance that has been made recently.  We crossed over
page 210
one of the great moats, and after getting permission to enter, were let in through a door that opens into the court-yard, quite near the tower in which Bahá'u'lláh was imprisoned.  The scene in the court-yard was a great change from what we had seen two years ago.  All of it except the end at which we entered was cut off by a barb-wire fence, and beyond that was a garden.  The great reservoir in the centre had been whitewashed, and was as white as new snow!  Everywhere was cleanliness and order.  About the reservoir were planted a circle of eucalyptus trees which were higher than a man.  And in the corners were flower gardens in a very flourishing condition.  It was a tremendous contrast to what it must have been when the pilgrims and exiles first entered in the sixties.  There were a number of soldiers about, resting or looking after the garden.  We were not permitted to go inside the wire fence, so we did not see again the rooms at that end of the barracks.  The rooms that Bahá'u'lláh and the family occupied are in good condition, clean, and apparently not used by the soldiers.  The friend who was with us told us what each one of the rooms was used for, the one the Master had, the one that was used for a kitchen, the one where they used to gather on feast days, etc.
When we entered the carriage we drove directly to the Ridván.  It was good to come in sight of the water-wheel on the end of the island and to see again those narrow, quiet streams of water that cut the Ridván off from the mainland.  In the Ridván we went directly to the lovely spot under the mulberry trees.  How I love that place!  I should have liked to stay there for several hours, meditating and dreaming, in that place which is so far out of the world.
At the lower end of the garden we came to the little house in which Bahá'u'lláh had lived while in the garden.  We went up a flight of steps to the room Bahá'u'lláh had used, and entered there.  It is kept in excellent order, with a number of pieces of furniture Bahá'u'lláh had used.  There was the chair he had used, with a wooden chest built about it.  Then there was a great table with inlaid-wood top.  The top lifted up like the lid of a grand piano and inside were dozens of little pigeon-holes in which he used to keep tablets, manuscripts, etc.  In it also were a pile of lovely peacock feathers.  The young gardener from Bahjí was with us, and I was utterly astonished when he took out one of them and gave it to me.  I love peacock feathers for their beauty of colour, and to have one from the garden of the Ridván was a most beautiful gift.  There were also two or three other pieces of furniture that Bahá'u'lláh had used.  After leaving there we went back to the mulberry trees, and I had a few minutes quietly there.  It is the most exquisite place!
Ridvániyeh Khánum told me once about the days there in the garden during the time of Bahá'u'lláh.  During the days of the feast of Ridván the immediate family were there with him all the time.  But each day he would invite nine of the friends from 'Akká to spend the day with him.  They would come early in the morning, have lunch with him, and not go home till evening.  Then on the next day another nine would come and stay.  Imagine how the friends must have looked forward to their day in that garden!  Ridvániyeh Khánum said that Bahá'u'lláh was very fond of all beauty, colours, odours, etc.  Also that he was very kind to the children.  One day he found a number of the little girls playing together, and he asked them what they would like to have.  They apparently did not express any wish, but he guessed at what they might like.  So he sent a man away and when he came back he brought for each girl a slender gold bracelet, as a gift from Bahá'u'lláh.
Just as we were leaving the Ridván the gardener brought me a great bunch of flowers which he had picked for me, dahlias, phlox and several kinds of which I did not know the name.
G. L. C. [Genevieve L. Coy?]


XIII:8, November 1922
page 211
Some questions asked-let us consider them
Dr Frederick W. D'Evelyn
There is a spirit in this age.  Men are reacting to its influence.  This reaction is shaping questions, moulding comments and formulating surmises.  Our best sympathies are awakened.
The Times Literary Supplement (London) recently stated, "There will be changes in the Christian religion;" "What form, no one can say."  We advance the claim that Bahá'í elucidation reveals the dawn of a New Cycle comprehensively enough to include all pre-manifested truth and light, thereby establishing a spiritual consummation.  Amplify this claim and we find it covers the "change" and the "form" inquired of by the Times Literary Supplement.
This article further advances two questions of most commendable conception.  The first, one of faith:  "What think ye of Christ?"  The student of the Bahá'í teaching would ask to have the question read, "What know ye of Christ."  The measure is found in knowing, not in thinking.  (We shall return to this later.)
The second question is:  "How is the fullness of life to be lived in the narrow way:  how is a sincere acceptance of Christianity to be reconciled with a free and generous view of civilization?"  This is a great question and when the Times Literary Supplement adds as a context, "Neither of these problems will be solved in a generation or a century" we halt, but are neither fearful nor dismayed for the solution is with us today.  Our author says, "we need God" and, if Christians-a "Christ".  This later he magnificently interprets "as a spiritual and universal Christ who includes but transcends the Jesus of the Gospels."
We are passing the junction, and are now nearing a common highway.  The Times Literary Supplement uses "Names", conventional and orthodox, and, we almost suspect, unwittingly, with their accepted valuation.  The Bahá'í is instructed to consider freedom from "Names"-long since sundered from their birthplace and baptism-as blessed.  Dogma helps us in no wise with our responses.  Having concreted error its subsequent "teachings" are confusion.
In the world of Divinity, identity and quality are one.  "Christ" is a station, an attribute, not a surname.  The "Word" is inseparable from the identity and quality of Divinity.  Word and God are one.  No duality, perfect unity.  The station of the Christ is the station of the Word.  The station of the Word is the station of God.  The Christ station and the God station are perfect unity, inseparable.  The Christ (station) thus dwells in but transcends the mere personality of each and all the Mighty Human Temples through which God (the Word) has spoken.  No section of the world of humanity has any monopoly of Divine rights.  "The Essence of My Light is Universal."
This station in its comprehensiveness and oneness permits the "knowing" (the knowledge) of Christ, eliminating the doubting of "mere thinking".  The Times Literary Supplement claims Christianity is not and can not be the same thing as civilization, for "just as it has a supernatural creed, so it has a supernatural life."  This estimate is surely a mere ecclesiastical reflex, a product of limitation.
page 212
Reverentially we would express the conviction that nothing would be more un-Godlike than to impose a "supernatural" life and creed upon man, compel him to sojourn "upon earth", to do His will, recognize His presence and yet deprive man of all possibilities of compliance, thus reducing his existence to a mere phase of probation, unreality and detachment.  We admit full sympathy with the viewpoint of the Times Literary Supplement a sympathy which is still more heightened when the writer asks for a "Christianity" which knows that one who gives himself wholly to music or astronomy is as fully a Christian as one who gives himself wholly to the service of the altar or to work amongst the poor.  We shall not dissect the claim nor cross-examine its ideal.  We prefer rather simply to quote from Bahá'í utterance confident that in so doing we shall afford an evaluation and answer and at the same time confirm our sympathy already expressed.
"The Word (Essence) of God is the spirit of Reality.  All things owe their existence to it.  Its light when cast upon the mirrors of the wise gives expression to wisdom; reflected from the minds of artists it produces manifestations of new and beautiful arts; when it shines through the minds of students it reveals knowledge and unfolds mysteries."
Therein is no limitation.  "Reality" (Word) is universal; also inexhaustible.  Apart from this "Christianity and Civilization" and all the composite conventionality associated therewith become mere terminologies possessing no creative innateness.
The Times Literary Supplement modestly asserts, "his paper is to raise questions rather than answer them."  Joining him in the station of the journey-goal-ward-the service of endeavour heralds comfort and assurance to us; we desire his best activities in things that mean so much.  His "questions" translated in the "Spirit of Reality" indicate a turning towards the Light (Centre), with a desire and attraction that will ere long solve for him how the "fullness of life is to be lived" in acceptance of knowledge which hath appeared.
In this category of viewpoints we can find "the spirit of this Age" urging Glenn Frank, Editor of The Century Magazine, "to certain prophecies" which for us are simply reflexes complimentary of the Reality we have already referred to.  Mr Frank claims the advent of a spiritual renaissance of Western Civilization, not so much from a plan to set the world right as from a passion to see the world right.  We have no desire to comment upon this further than to realize a very honest effort to introduce and establish a viewpoint which, however evident to himself, he is doubtful-and to us it seems justly so-if it will be equally so to his readers.  He is timorous lest he may be judged as "predicting a mysticism that would sweep the world."  This he in nowise heralds.  He concedes "the confusion of titles" when he says, "it is difficult to avoid this impression", however, if one uses the word "spiritual" for mankind has ever insisted upon a clean-cut distinction between the spiritual and the secular.  From us Mr Frank wins consensus of judgement when he adds "a distinction that is in my reasoning altogether false."
Later, the way to our traveller seems mist-encumbered.  We admit ourselves into his group of "certain minds" who find it difficult to grasp the "notion" that a vast spiritual movement can spring from the secular activities of science, industry and politics.  The premises claimed in our earlier statements would simply reverse this order of estimates.  We are almost persuaded that Mr Frank himself would assess our claim as a readjustment rather than a contradiction for he later concluded that "spiritual redemption must be brought to the morally impossible condition into which our western civilization has drifted."
Mr Frank's estimates as to the probable leadership of the "coming renaissance" are fascinating and arresting.  Space prohibits detailed analysis.  Further, tendering the explanation we do for the "spirit of this Age" the "leadership" is an already solved relation.  The pronounced desire for the welfare of humanity quickens the "issue" taken
page 213
by Mr Frank and exalts his service into one of valued effort and direction.
It is undoubted that the "Secrets of Greatness" are being sincerely, faithfully and persistently sought for and to all thus seeking it is worth while to remember that our outward self, our inward self, must be consecrated in the service and sacrifice and, finally, it is necessary for the soul to prove the message and reach a station of belief through its own power of judgement.
This is indeed a high and noble birthright.


XIII:8, November 1922
page 213
Capacity and spiritual revelation
How often the eye falls unconsciously upon some word or printed page and a lasting impression is gained which is destined to grow stronger and stronger as the years go by!  Some time ago the writer picked up a magazine which seemed to have been published by some religious organization and was of the type of those usually distributed broadcast with the hope of carrying conviction to some searching soul.  One of the pages bore an illustration of a granite sarcophagus.  Huge blocks of granite formed the foundation, greater slabs the base and above these there rose the receptacle which contained the remains of the deceased, a case of granite cemented together and bound round with great iron bands, but-this was the story which the printing underneath the illustration related:
"The deceased whose tomb is here represented passed from this life an agnostic, denying God and scoffing at the idea of life hereafter.  He boasted that he would construct a tomb which should prove impervious in the 'day of resurrection', from which his body might not issue to the summons of the 'Last Trump'.  How wise; and yet how unenlightened!
"Into a crevice of those granite slabs some slight breeze, or perhaps some bird of flight had dropped a little seed.  Sun and rain had cast their magic spell upon this seed and it had sprouted carrying little by little a pressure which had caused the crevice to widen and widen until at the time of the photograph the iron bands were broken, the granite tomb separated and out of its midst there had grown a tree so lovely and symmetrical that it seemed to say by the very beauty of its presence, 'What hath God wrought?'"
For those who have found the Bahá'í Revelation it is difficult to picture the time when there was any uncertainty as to life after death or to believe that there ever was a time when we were so far from reconciling science with religion that we could have believed in the resurrection of the physical body in the same form which it had borne when it was the temple of the soul!  And yet the world has remained in darkness regarding this great subject and humanity is still struggling with it, save those who have been born into a knowledge of what the spiritual resurrection really means through the breaking of the seals by Bahá'u'lláh and the clear and lucid explanations of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  All this puts one in mind of the talk given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá about "Capacity and Readiness".  He said:
"Wherever in the night a lamp is lighted people naturally are attracted to that light and gather around it.  When there is a gathering in the evening in any place it is indicative of the fact that a light has there been lighted.
"There are lamps the light of which is limited.  There are lamps which illumine the horizons.  The lamp of the
page 214
guidance of God wherever lighted has illumined the horizons.  Praise be to God!  In this country the lamp of the guidance of God has been lighted and day by day its light is becoming more and more resplendent and this splendour is becoming more and more widespread.  Now this is not known but later its traces will become evident.
"Consider how in the days of His Holiness Christ the light of guidance lighted twelve hearts.  Twelve hearts were illumined by that light; and how limited it seemed!  But how spacious it became, for it illumined the world!
"You are not a great body of people but, because the lamp of guidance has been lighted in your hearts the effects will be wonderful in years to come.  It is evident and manifest that the world will be illumined.  Therefore you must thank God that, praise be to God! through His favour and grace the lamp of the most great guidance has been ignited in your hearts and He has summoned you to His kingdom.  He has caused the call of the Supreme Concourse to reach your ears.  The doors of heaven have been opened unto you.  The Sun of Reality has shone upon you.  The cloud of Mercy is pouring down and the breezes of Providence have blown toward you.
"Although the bestowal is great and the grace is glorious, yet, capacity and readiness are requisite.  Without capacity and readiness the divine bestowals will not become manifest and evident.  No matter how much the cloud may rain, the sun may shine, the breezes blow the land of sterility will give forth no verdure.  The ground which is pure and free from thorns and thistles receives and produces through the rain of the cloud of Mercy.  No matter how much the sun shines it will have no effect upon the black rock.  But in a pure and polished mirror its light becomes resplendent.  Therefore we must obtain capacity in order that the signs of the mercy of the Lord may become revealed.  We must endeavour to make the soil of the hearts free from these useless weeds and sanctified from the thorns of useless thoughts in order that the cloud of Mercy may bestow its power upon it.
"The doors of God are open, but there is need of readiness.
"The ocean of Providence is surging, but we must be able to swim.
"The bestowals of God are descending from the heaven of Grace, but capacity is necessary.
"The fountain of Providence is gushing forth, but we must have thirst.
"Unless there be thirst the salubrious water will not assuage.
"Unless a soul is hungry the delicious foods of God will not appeal.
"Unless the eyes are perceptive the light of the sun will not be witnessed.
"Unless the nostrils are pure the fragrance of the Rose Garden will not be inhaled.
"Unless the heart be longing the favours of the Lord will not become evident.
"Therefore we must endeavour day and night to purify the hearts from dross, to sanctify the souls from every fetter and to become free from the discords of humanity.  Then the divine bestowals in their fullness and glory will become evident.  If we do not strive and become sanctified from the defects and evil qualities of human nature we will not partake of the bestowals of God."
N. S. F. [Nellie S. French?]


XIII:8, November 1922
page 218
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
"All the created phenomena are subject to the law of change and transmutation.  Youth is followed by old age, a tender plant becomes an old, decrepit tree, dynasties are born, wax strong, reach to the zenith of glory and then totter to the ground.  Likewise every one of the world-religions has been the cause of progress and advancement in its own time, but now they have become like old, very old trees.  They do not yield any more luscious fruits.  Some people persist in the unscientific belief that these very old trees will again become young, push forth leaves, blossoms and fruits.  This is impossible.  This age needs a young, vigorous plant with world-wide growing capacity."
__________
"We do not oppose the religion of any one.  We act in accordance with the Gospel.  But we must also act in accordance with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  They are:  the oneness of the world of humanity, independent investigation of truth, abandonment of prejudice, universal peace, etc.  You must act in accordance with these teachings."
__________
"In the coming of Christ the Divine teachings were given in accordance with the infancy of the human race.  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh have the same basic principles, but are according to the stage of the maturity of the world and the requirements of this illumined age."-'Abdu'l-Bahá.


XIII:8, November 1922
page 220
The Mount Carmel of the future
A prophesy given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the Tomb of the Báb, Sunday, 4 January 1920
"In this gathering," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "all the friends are assembled together in the utmost freedom, happiness and majesty.  Nothing could be better than this.  The day will come when this mountain will be resplendent with light,-lights from top to bottom.  On one side of it there will be a hotel, a universal hotel.  Its door will be open to all the people of the world.  Whoever comes will be a guest.  On the other side of the mountain there will be a university in which all the higher sciences will be taught.  On another part of it there will be a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.  On another part of it there will be a home for the
page 221
incurables.  In still another part there will be a home for the poor.  In still another part there will be a home for orphans.  All these will be administered with love.  I foresee that this harbour (Haifa) will be full of vessels.  And from here to the Blessed Shrine (Bahjí) there will be wide avenues, on both sides of which there will be trees and gardens.  On the surrounding land at Bahjí similar institutions to those at Mount Carmel will be established.  And from all these places the songs of praise and exaltation will be raised to the Supreme Concourse."
Regarding the Bahá'í Temple to be built on Mount Carmel 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote to Mr Charles Mason Remey of Washington, D.C., in a tablet dated 7 October 1921:  "Some time ago I wrote thee a letter the content of which was that, praise be to God, thou hast become confirmed in drawing a plan for the pilgrim house in Haifa.  It is my hope that this pilgrim house may be built under your supervision.  Also in the future a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár will be established on Mount Carmel.  Thou wilt be its architect and founder.  I give thee this glad tidings."
[end of Book 7 (Vol. XI, No. 19; Vol. XII, Nos 1-19; and Vol. XIII, Nos 1-8)]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	Note:  This tablet is in answer to a letter I wrote to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 14 April 1920, in regard to our having formed a Board for the San Diego Assembly, of which Mr Waite is Chairman.  I also wrote of the wonderful self-sacrifice and loving service which Mary Fenn has for several years rendered the Cause here, keeping the fire burning under most discouraging circumstances.  I also asked for instructions regarding cremation, of which I knew he does not approve, but I wished to have his own words upon the subject.-Shahnáz Waite.
1	Thomas Windust, printer, was born in London, England, 12 November 1849.  Died at Chicago, 21 May 1913, and was buried in Mount Hope Cemetery, 23 May.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, p. 359.
2	A portrait this size normally takes at least forty hours.  An advertisement for copies of this portrait in Star of the West, XIV:8, p. 254, states that 'Abdu'l-Bahá took this portrait back with him to Haifa where it remained.
3	George Latimer's 1919 pilgrimage notes.
4	Caretaker of the Tomb of the Báb.
5	Now Bahá'u'lláh and Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.-M.W.T.
6	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 135-152.
7	Refer to Shoghi Effendi:  Directives of the Guardian, No. 44, p. 16.
8	Refer to next Tablet to Mrs Mary Hall.
9	Star of the West, XII:16, pp. 253-254.  Not included in this document.
10	Refer also to:
a)  "The passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá" by Lady Blomfield and Shoghi Effendi in The Bahá'í World, Vol. I, pp. 19-31.
b)  Balyuzi:  'Abdu'l-Bahá, Chapter 24.
11	See Star of the West, XII:17, pp.259-267 (English); and pp. 288-284 (Arabic).
12	See Star of the West, XII:17, pp.259-267 (English); and pp. 288-284 (Arabic).
13	See Star of the West, XI:19, p. 324.
14	Incorrect statement.
15	Star of the West, XIII:1, p. 8.
16	Literally "lapwings" or Messengers of Solomon.
17	Extract from Editorial.
18	From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the unpublished diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb written during World War I.
19	Subserve:  to be useful or helpful to (a purpose, cause, etc.); serve; promote; aid.
20	Afferent:  physiological-bringing inward to a central part; specifically, designating nerves that transmit impulses to the central nervous system, as to the brain: opposed to efferent.
21	Elysium-any place or condition of ideal bliss or complete happiness; paradise.
22	Asphodel-any of a genus (Asphodeline) of plants of the lily family, having fleshy roots, narrow leaves, and white or yellow, lily-like flowers; especially the classic flower of death.
23	Amaranth-[old poetical] an imaginary flower that never fades or dies.
24	Meliorist-person believing that:
1.  the world naturally tends to get better and, especially, that this tendency can be furthered by human effort
2.  the betterment of society is possible by improving people's health, living conditions, etc.
25	Cloisonné:  A type of enamel work in which the surface decoration is set in hollows formed by thin strips of wire welded to a metal plate.
