This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  October-December 2002.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá from the
Star of the West1
Volume XX, Nos 1-12 (April 1929-March 1930)
Volume XXI, Nos 1-12 (April 1930-March 1931)
Volume XXII, Nos 1-12 (April 1931-March 1932)
Volume XXIII, Nos 1-12 (April 1932-March 1933)
Volume XXIV, Nos 1-12 (April 1933-March 1934)
and
Volume XXV, Nos 1-12 (April 1934-March 1935)


XX:4, July 1929
page 101
'Abdu'l-Bahá2
The most blessed condition is the condition of prayer and supplication.  Prayer is conversation with God.  The greatest attainment or the sweetest state is none other than conversation with God.  It creates spirituality, creates mindfulness and celestial feelings, begets new attractions of the Kingdom and engenders the susceptibilities of the higher intelligence.
Prayer and supplication are so effective that they inspire one's heart for the whole day with high ideals and supreme sanctity and calmness.  One's heart must be sensitive to the music of prayer.  He must feel the effect of prayer.
Man becomes like a stone unless he continually supplicates to God.  The heart of man is like a mirror which is covered with dust, and to cleanse it one must continually pray to God that it may become clean.  The act of supplication is the polish which erases all worldly desires. ...  Prayer is a key by which the doors of the kingdom are opened.  There are many subjects which are difficult for man to solve.  But during prayer and supplication they are unveiled.


XX:5, August 1929
page 130
The uniting power
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Praise be to God that the Divine Cause in this Bahá'í dispensation is one of absolute love and of pure spirituality.  It is not of this kingdom the earth, for it is not war and distress, nor the oppression of one people by another.  Its army is the love of God; its victory is the ecstasy of the knowledge of God; its battle is that of Truth-the exposition of the Word; its warfare is against selfishness; its patience is its reserve; its entire meekness is its conquering power; and its love for all is a glory forevermore.  In a word it is a spirit and it is love.
__________
It is for us to consider how we may educate men that the darkness of ignorance and heedlessness may disappear and that the radiance of the Kingdom may encompass the world; that the nations of men may be delivered from selfish ambition and strife, and be revivified by the fragrance of God; that animosity and hatred may be dispersed and wholly disappear.  While the attracting power of the love of God so completely unites the hearts of men that all hearts beat as a single heart; that the arteries of all mankind may pulsate with the love of God; that contention and war may utterly pass away, while peace and reconciliation lift their standard in the midst of the earth.
__________
Bahá'u'lláh made the utmost effort to educate (His people) and incite them to morality, the acquisition of the sciences and arts of all countries, kindly dealing with all the nations of the earth, desire for the welfare of all peoples, sociability, concord, obedience, courtesy, instruction of their children, production of what is needful for the human race, and inauguration of true happiness for mankind.
__________
The existent world needs a uniting power to connect nations.  There are various uniting powers in the world. ...  All these uniting powers are ineffective and perishable.  The only uniting power which can connect all hearts and last forever is faith in God and love for Him.  This is the only enduring power, the one that never perishes.
__________
It is God's Will that the differences between nations should disappear.  Those who help the cause of unity, are doing God's work.  Unity is the Divine Bounty for this brilliant century.


XX:5, August 1929
page 149
The Holy Land today
Ruth Ellis Moffett
A visit to the Holy Land, where every stone, every corner and every path speaks with historic memories and palpitates with stories of the Old Testament Prophets, and the life of Jesus the Christ, requires deep preliminary study and careful preparation.  One needs especially a spiritual preparation to penetrate the profound mysticism which surrounds and illuminates the countryside of Galilee, Samaria and the hills of Judea, and then they might be able to picture just a little of the lives of those simple but great characters of the past as they lived and suffered and prayed.
The history of the Holy Land loses itself in the dim mists of the ages.  There is an ancient legend that 'Akká was the home of Adam.  Here legend and history weave a fairy like pattern of the past.
Picture for yourself a narrow strip of rough, rocky, mountainous land between two great reservoirs of pure air-the Mediterranean Sea and the Great Desert.  The atmosphere has a singular purity and translucent quality, so that the colours must be mixed on the palette of the imagination with the most mellow and delicate tints.
Next sketch rapidly, many rocky, barren, mountain ranges, several large sandy plains, a few small valleys capable of being cultivated.  Paint in vivid colours a heterogeneous mass of all kinds of people, with
Page 150
differing customs, costumes, standards of living, and grades of development.  These, all unamalgamated and warring with each other until England reaches out a rescuing hand, restraining and bringing a semblance of order out of chaos.
We find in this little strip of land, no longer than from Albany to New York City, the Bridge of Sighs of history.  It is the bridge between the north and the south, the connecting link between the east and west.  It is the footstool of kings, the keynote of empires, the battlefield whose soil is stained with the blood of wars innumerable, and it is the home of outlaws, the shrine of martyrs, saints and Prophets by the score.
In Palestine there are Christians, Moslems, Jews, Samaritans, Germans, Indians, Russians, Persians, Armenians and Syrians-all hating and mutually suspicious of each other.
In 721 BC Israel's glory departed and these people had no part in the affairs of Palestine for over 2,000 years.  Palestine was successively ruled by Assyria, Babylon, Persia, Greece, Syria, Rome and last by the Turks for 700 years.  These changes have had a very disastrous effect upon the political, economic and religious life of the country.
But already, in the short time since England has taken Palestine as a mandate, there is marked improvement in sanitation, good roads, substantial buildings with red tiled roofs, the absence of beggars and lepers and general signs of progress in all phases of life.
It seems the weakest spot in the progressive programme which England has been carrying out so far, is in the field of education.  This is for several reasons, first, financial, for not enough money has been available; second, because the Jews are taking care of their own people by establishing an excellent school system.  The Christians are also doing fairly well with their own, leaving the difficult problem, however, of the big mass of Moslem people for England to care for; in the third place, seven-eighths of the Moslems are totally illiterate and resent being educated.  So there is, a great need for sympathetic teachers.
The Jewish University, founded by Einstein is most interesting and is already becoming the University of Universities taking up advanced work where other Universities discontinue.  There are modern laboratories in biology and colloidal chemistry, theology, history, literature, law and philosophy of the Jew.  They have England to thank again for this great educational opportunity.
The English soldier boys are doing their bit, with great courtesy and tact.  Bruce Barton says that if the Jews attempt to set up a government of their own, there will be a great revolt which will wipe out the Jews entirely.  This illustrates how strong the feeling is against the Jews.  The hope of harmony and peace and cooperation, however, lies with the children, as they become educated and enlightened.
It is plain to anyone that the problems of the Holy Land are today, complicated and of a most delicate character.
There are inconsiderable groups of every religion in the world, each
Page 151
with some kind of a centre in the Holy Land.  The same ill feeling and lack of understanding constantly seen between the racial groups exists between the various religious camps.
There are shrines of many of these religious groups, ancient and modern, all over this fascinating land.  One little known but most interesting is the Shrine of the Samaritans, at Nablas.  The Samaritans are a dwindling remnant of Babylonian colonists.  In the 7th century BC, the Assyrian conquerors had planted them to replace the Israelite population of Samaria, who were deported fifty years before, to countries east of the Euphrates.  On the return of the Jews from exile in 536 BC, the Samaritans were not allowed to take part in the building of the Temple at Jerusalem, so they built one of their own on Mt. Gerizim and thereby stereotyped the race and worship so sharply that there is no association with the Jews, even to this day.
All the various religions of the world seem to be divided between those that are most conservative and those that are progressive in their ideals.  This is very apparent among the Jews and we are surprised to learn that it is becoming more evident today among the Muslims.
The President of the Constantinople Woman's College told me of the reformation of Turkey which seems to be a harbinger of conditions evolving in the Muslim world.  She said that in Turkey, Islám is dead.  A wind revives it for a time, but its revival does not last long.  There is nothing they have yet found to take it's place.  They are through with dogmas.  They are willing to accept new ideas and are trying to take the best of the old and the new for the good of the people.
But it is rather disconcerting the way they look up to the people of the United States with trust and a belief that all Americans are honest.  They are now religiously tolerant, but are rabid against proselytizing.  They quickly close the schools of those who teach religion of any kind.  She said "If we Americans are welcomed to their country and shown every courtesy and hospitality and they demand that we teach no religion, we should keep faith with them until the doors shall open wider."
"Everything that was before 1923" she said, "does not exist today.  The young Turks are trying to put the best foot forward, and are grateful to the United States for all we are doing to help her save her self respect.  But we must be more patient and sympathetic and co-operative.  We must get a new set of religious principles over to the Turkish young women."  It seems to be the tendency of the young Muslim in the Holy Land today to rebuild the best from old Turkey, and add the new from the western world.  Of all the natural shrines in Palestine today none are more enduring, symbolic and free from the man-wrought web of superstitions than are the beautiful Sea of Galilee and majestic, old, Mt. Carmel.  The Sea nestles in calm, mirror-like blueness, 700 feet below the level of the sea.  It is surrounded by softly curving hills and bordered with a strip of golden sand.  It is thirteen
Page 152
miles from north to south, and six miles from east to west.  This beautiful spot where Jesus the Christ told the story of the good Samaritan, and then said, "Ye shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost parts of the earth."  And where He said to the fishermen, "Come, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men", is surely one of the most truly impressive natural shrines of Christianity:  This is doubly so because of the more recent presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Who also taught the people beside the tideless sea.
When bathed in sunshine and inhaling the freedom of the pure open spaces, and with face turned heavenward, one instinctively replies, "Yes, Lord, I will follow Thee too."
To appreciate Mt. Carmel, the Mountain of God, we must turn back the pages of history for a moment.  During the Greco Roman days before Christ this famous mountain was covered with groves and terraces and many towns nestled at its feet.  The Old Testament Prophets lived and taught upon it's sloping sides.  Jesus Christ and His disciples often escaped from the crowds and from persecution in its friendly caves.
In the 7th century AD, Khusraw Parvíz, the Persian Conqueror came, followed by the host of Khalífih 'Umar.  The four centuries of Muslim rule (637 to 1098) were most destructive.  The Christian Crusades (1098 to 1187) added to the devastation.  Each destroying the monuments of the one preceding.  The Saracen invasion in the 13th century drove both the Crusaders and the Carmelites away.
In 1631 Father Prosper again established the Carmelite Order on Mt. Carmel, over the cave of Elijah.  In 1761 the Turks again became victorious, destroying the monastery and many of the villages of the Druses.  In 1799 Napoleon entered upon the scene.  For three months, March, April and May, he made unsuccessful siege on 'Akká.  Finally being forced to abandon it, saying that if he could take that speck of dust, he could change the map of the world.
The next scene is of the wounded soldiers of the French being cared for on Mt. Carmel.
The scene changes.  The Turks became enraged again, destroying everything on the historic old mountain.  In 1827 Monk John the Baptist rebuilt the monastery, naming it Our Lady of Mt. Carmel.  In 1914 at the beginning of the world war, the Turks tried again to destroy it.
From the earliest founding of this old monastery, the Carmelite monks have preserved a legend that the Christ would again appear upon the Mountain of God.  They have a special room in which they expect Him to appear.  They keep candles burning in this room, and a monk is in constant attendance.  It is reported that in 1887 or '88, Bahá'u'lláh, the Manifestation of the Christ Spirit for this day, did appear in that monastery and signed His Name to the guest register.  But the Carmelites were asleep and have not yet awakened.
It is recorded Bahá'u'lláh, the Promised One, sat beneath the clump of cedars on the mountain side,
Page 153
praying perhaps for the peace and quickening of the world.
Near it stands the simple, impressive Shrine of the Báb, the Herald of the Bahá'í Revelation to mankind, and the Shrine of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the servant of God.
Truly this is the Mountain of God-a bit of heaven brought to earth.
As one stands on the Path of Contemplation at sunset, overlooking the sea and the valley filled with history and legends shrouded in the mysteries of the past, the brain becomes deeply impressed with the pure brilliance of colour, the delicacy of tint and the purity of air and the vista of inexpressible peace which prevails.
The soul responds spontaneously to the words, "Blessed are the peace-makers for they shall be called the children of God."  Here in the soft, mellow, gold tinted after-glow, all the mystic past, all the inharmonious creeds, all the discordant races, seem to merge into one.  There were no creeds, no divergent races, no varying Holy Places-all were Holy, all were one, and God stood revealed in the midst.
The Holy Land today is like a mighty river, gathering many brooks and streams into the unity of its on flowing current in its progress toward the sea, and we see in vision the prophecy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "All must become united and agreed:  All are drops of one river, the waters of one sea, the breezes of one garden, the streams flowing from one fountain, the birds soaring from one apex, the hyacinths adorning one park intoxicated with one wine, and their hearts ravished by one melody."
And so we will close with this thought of the Holy Land today, singing in our hearts-"The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for Them; and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose.  It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing; the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon.  They shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God."  (Isaiah 35:1-2)


XX:6, September 1929
page 174
Communication with the other world
Compiled from the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
...
Page 175
Question:  Are there 'earth-bound' souls who try to have and do have an influence over people, sometimes taking entire possession of their wills?  'Abdu'l-Bahá answered:  "There are no earthbound souls.  When the souls that are not good die they go entirely away from this earth and so cannot influence anyone.  They are spiritually dead.  Their thoughts can have influence only while they are alive on the earth.  Caiaphas had great influence during his life, but as soon as he died his influence ceased.  It was of this kind that Christ said, 'Let the dead bury their dead.'  But the good souls are given eternal life and sometimes God permits their thoughts to reach the earth to help the people."
(Daily Lessons at Acca, p. 41.)
Regarding the materialization of spirits through mediums:  A person finding himself in a state of trance, or unconsciousness, is like one who sleeps; whatever he feels and sees he imagines to be matter and of material things, but in reality they are wholly immaterial. ...
There is a wonderful power and strength which belongs to the human spirit, but it must receive confirmation from the Holy Spirit.  The rest of which you hear is superstition.  But if it is aided by the Bounty of the Holy Spirit, it will show great power, it will discover realities, and it will be informed of the mysteries.  Direct all the attention to the Holy Spirit, and call the attention of every soul to it.
Page 176
Then will you see wonderful signs.  Outside of the Bounty of the Holy Spirit all that thou hearest concerning mesmerism or trumpet communications from the dead are sheer imagination.
(Tablets to Mrs Ella Goodall Cooper)


XX:8, November 1929
page 229
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Rivalry between the different races of mankind was first caused by the struggle for existence among the wild animals.  This struggle is no longer necessary, nay rather, interdependence and co-operation are seen to produce the highest welfare in nations.  The struggle that now continues is caused by prejudice and bigotry.  Today nothing but the power of the Divine Word, which embraces the reality of all things, can draw together the minds, hearts and spirits of the world under the shadow of the heavenly tree of unity.
__________
Self interest is at the bottom of every war.  Greed, commerce, exploitation, the pushing further of the boundaries of the kingdom, colonization, the preservation of the treaty rights, the safeguarding of the lives and interests of the citizens, are a few of the pretexts of going into war.  And it has been proven by experience that the results of war are ruinous, both to the conquerors and the conquered. ...  But in this luminous century the greatest bestowal of the world of humanity is universal peace which must be founded so that the realm of creation may obtain composure. ...  Like unto a spirit, this ideal must run and circulate through the veins and arteries of the body of the world.


XX:8, November 1929
page 239
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Those kings and rulers whose fame for just government and greatness filled the world did not occupy themselves alone with their personal ambition and the acquirement of riches, but accounted the public weal and the increase of the inhabitants of their countries and the general treasury as their greatest care.  Their glory was not bought with gold or silver, but was purchased by the soundness of the principles and the nobility of their aspirations.  Such are those rulers who are benevolent and wise, whose dignity and real happiness lie in the well being of the public ...


XX:10, January 1930
page 290
'Abdu'l-Bahá
If the oneness of the human world were effected all the differences which separate mankind would be eradicated.  All strife and warfare would cease and the world of humanity would find repose.  Universal peace would be promoted and the east and west would be conjoined in a strong bond.  All men would be sheltered beneath one tabernacle.  All nativities would become one.  All races and religions be unified.  The people of the world would live together in peace and their well being would be assured.


XX:10, January 1930
page 293
What is faith?
Faith outwardly means to believe in the Message a Manifestation brings to the world and accept the fulfilment in Him of that which the Prophets have announced.  But in reality faith embodies three degrees:  to confess with the tongue; to believe in the heart; to show forth in our actions.  These three things are essential to true faith ...
__________
The greater the faith of man the more illumined his life.  Faith is a miracle; it has a wonder working power.  Its spiritual influence refines the character, suffers man to become humble and meek; places in his heart the fear of God; prompts him to devote his time to humanitarian deeds; spiritualizes his nature; exalts his ideals and enkindles his lamp.  The greater the faith of man the more numerous will be his philanthropic actions.  Faith is like unto the trees, deeds are like unto the fruits.  Faith is like unto the lamp, deeds are like unto the light. ...  Faith is not so much what we believe as what we carry out.
__________
There are three kinds of faith.  First that which is from tradition and birth.  For example:  a child is born of Muslim parents; he is a Muslim.  This faith is weak, traditional faith.  Second, that which comes from knowledge and is the faith of understanding.  This is good.  But there is a better the faith of practice.  This is the real faith.
__________
Faith is not so much what we believe as what we carry out.  Faith is the magnet which draws the confirmation of the Merciful One.  We know and see the Light, we go close to it, are warmed by it, and reflect its rays on others.  This is real faith, and thus we receive power to become the eternal sons of God.


XX:10, January 1930
page 299
'Abdu'l-Bahá
All healing is spiritual healing in reality, no matter whether medicine or affirmation or supplication are used.  Any method which establishes the confidence of the heart, is approved-only that when it is done without the medium of drugs or food, no money should be accepted for it.
Asked which is the true attitude of prayer-affirmation or supplication-'Abdu'l-Bahá emphatically replied:  "Supplication because at the door of God's bounty all are humble suppliants and needy.
"Those who say they are healing through the Power of God, should accept no pay, for they are the dispensers of God's bounty, channels of His grace.  They should be like the disciples of Christ, who, after the crucifixion, assembled together for the purpose of discussing matters pertaining to their mission.  They regarded the Life of Jesus and His teachings.  'Freely ye have received, now freely ye must give.'"


XX:10, January 1930
page 301
A great prince speaks of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Martha L. Root
The following interview with a Muslim notable of Egypt has great human interest in revealing intimately not only the personality of a distinguished Oriental, but even more especially in showing the breadth of thought of a modern Muslim.  In the Islamic world, as well as in Christendom, intelligent and cultured people are much broader in their religious attitudes than a generation ago.
It was in Cairo, Egypt, on 14 November 1929, that one of the greatest Princes of this wonderful land of the Pharaohs and the Khedives,1 His Royal Highness Prince Muhammad 'Alí Páshá, so charming, so cultured, so far seeing a philosopher, spoke to the writer about his meeting with His secretary had called at my hotel three days before, and the invitation had been given for Thursday afternoon at three o'clock.  Motoring out through the colourful Cairo thoroughfares toward Mania Palace, the home of the Prince, the writer realized that nowhere in Egypt is the aggressive modernism of the nineteenth century more in evidence than in Cairo.  It is just this combination of the old and the new that gives the city its enchantment.  Some of the streets with their mosques and bazaars and coffee houses were medieval just like those in the Arabian Nights, others so spacious with squares and parks and hotels, opera houses, theatres and shops, that one feels London could boast no better.  But suddenly the chauffeur crosses a fine bridge called Prince Mohamed Ali bridge, and turns the car to the driveway beside the sinuous silvery Nile.  Everywhere are to be seen villas and splendid mansions, silhouetted against tall, stately sensitive palms, and the driver halts the motor car before the most imposing of all the palaces.
The pleasant, fine secretary received me, took me into a richly carpeted and tapestried entrance salon where I wrote my name in the Guest Book.  "Surely this Prince must be a great sportsman," I thought, "for these walls are covered with pictures of races and racers."  Then we stepped out again into the porte-cohère and walked into an Egyptian garden, the most beautiful tropic paradise I have ever looked upon!  Only a great artist could have created such a poem of palms; such a symphony of colours!  And in the very centre of the immense grounds was a great Banyan tree-the raison d'être for all the other magnificent trees-and the palace and the remarkable little mosque all in Moorish architecture and the tower of classic beauty and finally the gates wondrously carved all in black ebony.  "Oh, I must have been mistaken!" my mind said, "His Royal Highness the Prince, could not have been a sportsman, he is surely a famous architect, artist and genius!"
One may read all one's life about the charm of Egypt, and see the show places which millions of tourists have visited, but walking in this garden of palms, perfect palms representative of every species in every land, one wonders if heaven
Page 302
is more lovely, and if in the Kingdom Beyond there are trees like this Banyan tree which is a living tent without poles and cords, extending its welcome shade to all who come under it.
I was glad that no Pharaoh's daughter or no Cleopatra of the Ptolemies came walking down those palace steps in the distance, instead it was infinitely more interesting to see His Royal Highness Prince Muhammad 'Alí Páshá, brother of the former Khedive of Egypt and nephew of His Majesty the present King Fu'ád, this gracious host who had met 'Abdu'l-Bahá, come around one of the curving roadways of the garden to meet me.  He came quickly, swinging his cane, a handsome man with most sincere, frank, humanity trusting eyes.  His very soul salutes one through his penetrating brown eyes.  He was dressed in a modish suit of grey; he wore the distinguished red fez, and on his little finger was a wrought gold ring set with a large and very unusual emerald.
His delightful Highness the Prince shook hands with me and invited me to sit down in one of the comfortable rustic chairs at a little table under the Banyan tree.  You will sit with us, O reader, for you too, are in this enchanted garden to hear what a Prince, who is a savant and a philosopher, has to say about 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Only the Prince called him, 'Abbás Babá' which in Arabic means Abbás Father or Father Abbás.
"Yes, I knew Abbás Babá," commenced the Prince, "He was a great friend of my brother, Abbás Hilmi II, the late Khedive.  Also, Osman Murtadá the Grand Master of Ceremonies of my brother had a great friendship with Abbás Babá.  I met your loved Teacher first early in 1912 on my way to Paris.  Then when I was in New York in 1912, 'Abdu'l-Bahá' was living in a house near Central Park, a home which his friends, (or do you call them his followers?), had prepared for him.  I was living in the Belmont Hotel in Fifth Avenue, and Abbás Babá was kind enough to come and visit me there.  I deeply appreciated this kind visit."
Then His Royal Highness the Prince explained how proud he was to see a great Oriental moulding the spiritual thought of America.  My host continued:  "Although we are sorry to see Orientals so backward in sciences, still we must not forget that some great generals, great leaders of thought and all religions have been born in the Orient.  Abbás Babá has proved to Europeans and to the entire West that great generals of the Spirit are still born in the East!  As I love the Orient and am an Oriental, I was very proud of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's high station and prestige in the United States.  Yours is a country of such stupendous wonder, such marked inventions, such marvellous strides in progress, and you saw the greatness of 'Abdu'l-Bahá."
This earnest Prince spoke with such sincerity, his words were:  "I loved Abbás Babá and admired Him, and I felt He loved me and was a good friend to me."
"After this visit in New York," the Prince recounted, "I met Abbás Babá again in Paris.  He told me of His great conference in Oxford University, He told me too, of His friends in Germany.  Later on, we travelled together on the same ship
Page 303
coming back to Egypt.  For four days we were always together.  I was very sad when I heard of His passing, for I considered Him the most important man in our century.  A man like Abbás Babá cannot be replaced, that is my opinion.  He had such a great spirit, such a powerful brain and such a grasp of realities!"
Here the conversation changed, for just in this moment a lovely young svelte Egyptian boy dressed in cream robes all embroidered in red silk and with a red cap on his head, came bearing a golden tray with cups of mocha coffee.  It was real mocha too, direct from the planter to the Prince, and its delicious flavour I can best describe to you as "cup selections only!"  Over the coffee cups the writer asked His Royal Highness the Prince; "Are you a sportsman?  I saw all those racing pictures.  Or are you an artist?  Is it you who have created this garden which is so beautiful that I shall carry it away with me in my memory as a dream garden of palms where Muhammad and Christ and Bahá'u'lláh would choose to walk and talk together?  Or could you be the architect who designed this rare little mosque and tower and palace?  Or Your Royal Highness, are you a musician?"
He laughed and replied:  "Well, I've always been a keen sportsman.  Yes, I paint, I love nature, I am a musician and an artist, so I didn't need any architect for this place."  The Prince said that the garden was his creation and that he had gathered the palms from all parts of the world.  He elevated the whole grounds two metres from the Nile sands, twenty years ago, and had the trees planted, except the huge Banyan tree in the centre which is one hundred years old.
"I bought the property solely for the big tree," the Prince Muhammad 'Alí Páshá said, "this tree so fascinated me, it was the tree that made me choose this place for my home.  This Banyan tree was planted for my grand ancestor a century ago, planted by a Dutchman."
The Royal host said that many American statesmen had visited him and admired his garden, but that Colonel House when his guest paid him the compliment to say that it was the prettiest garden he had ever seen.  Speaking of Americans, the Prince said:  "We used to have a charming American Minister here, Dr Morton Howell.  Dr Howell was a straight forward, good American.  One day sitting out here under this Banyan tree, he said to me:  'Prince I thought Honolulu was a paradise, but since I have seen your garden, I know that not only in Honolulu but here in Cairo is a little spot that is just the same-it too, is paradise!'"
The Banyan tree and all the palms, this afternoon that I was at Manial Palace, were so clean-looking, every leaf and every trunk shone as if they had been given a "tub bath" every morning (but of course only the hose or the heavens could give them that!) and the shining green grass rippled in the sunshine as if it had just sprung up from a shower spray.  It was the grouping of the grand palms, too, which was so elusive, yet so satisfying.  One does not see everything at once in this garden, it has many vistas.  Mrs Butts' flowering vines from India rose in sprays here and there like crimson rambler roses; purple Bougainvilleas massed the
Page 304
entrance wall, while little meadows of red geraniums threw forth their vivid beauty, and all the wide garden paths were covered with a most attractive red sand which was very pleasing.
After our coffee, sitting under this wonderful Banyan tree, the conversation turned to life and philosophy.  The Prince said:  "I am in good relations with all people.  Since I was six years old I have travelled over the world, and I have learned that some things cannot be changed, they must run their course, so one must be a little philosophical and accept what comes."
His Royal Highness asked about my visit to Egypt and what I wished most to do.  He also spoke of my coming visit to Haifa, and then he alluded again to the Bahá'í Movement saying:  "You all have accomplished a great task in the United States.  It was very interesting to see the large number of Bahá'ís in America and to read of the splendid progress of the work."
He later spoke about Burma, and said it would be very good if these Bahá'í Teachings were promoted there-I quote his words:  "Though I respect all religions, I think if Abbás Babá's talks and counsels could be spoken of in Burma it would be very good.  There are such numbers of people there who would be uplifted and educated; certainly religion is a very good thing.  My situation is this:  being a good Muslim and with my position in the Muslim world, it would not be correct for me to be Bahá'í, but always I have been a good friend of Abbás Babá.  I remember in talking with Him, how very fascinating He always was!  Dressed all in white and with those two very bright eyes gazing into mine, I used to say to Him sometimes in fun, 'O Abbás Babá, do not look too much into my eyes!'  He was such a strong character, such a profound man, and He never did anything to hurt my feelings, He always showed me how much the Bahá'í Teachings are near to the Muslim religion."
The dear Prince continued: "In your Bahá'í ideas, all the Prophets are good, all men are brothers, all live together in love and admit that all the Prophets are from God.  The Bahá'í Cause is a very conciliatory religion because it brings all people together."
He said that much in the Bahá'í Teachings would appeal to the United States because there they are working so hard for peace and to do away with fighting.  He added that many people in America would like the Bahá'í instructions which are not to abuse with drinking, namely, not to use intoxicating liquors that cloud and take away the mind.  'Abdu'l-Bahá often spoke and showed how much the renouncing of tobacco, wine and opium gives health, strength and intellectual enjoyment, penetration of judgement and physical vigour.  "All the principles of Bahá'u'lláh," said this Prince, "would be appreciated by Americans."
The writer told him that President Herbert Hoover is a Quaker, and he was very interested to hear about Quakerism and its progress.
His Royal Highness Prince Muhammad 'Alí Páshá said, among other things:  "Life is very difficult today.  There are so many millions of people, so many ways of looking at things, how can all peoples be
Page 305
made broad minded and just?  In a family of ten members, to get all to be good is a task, how then can nations accomplish it?  I am very sorry that all religions in these days, seem to be backward.  Only people who feel they need help turn to religion now.  So many of those who have money for all their pleasures, do not think about God or religion.  Only today I was reading one of our Prophet's Words, 'You will see in the mosques, some day, only the people who need something from God.'  Religion has not been looked upon lately, as proper and necessary to educate the family.  This isn't that religion is bad, but it is because some of the followers of religion are intriguers."
For example, he stated that in Mexico, it wasn't that the Roman Catholic religion was not good, but the government did not wish the priests to have the ruling of the country.  The Prince's words were:  "If the church people would only be wise enough not to interfere in governmental matters, but would confine their attention to teaching the ignorant and doing good to everybody, no government would ever fight them."
These are just a few of the thoughts of this great Prince of Egypt Muhammad 'Alí Páshá, who so graciously received me this afternoon.  Each time that he spoke of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, his eyes and the tones of his voice, as well as his words spoke the eloquence of his love for Abbás Babá, Abbás Father.
No matter by what name this Prince calls himself spiritually, his life is a rare garden of good deeds to all humanity.  He may truly be said to be a Buddhist, a Jew, a Christian, a Muslim and a Bahá'í!  I am sure that he was happy to know that through the visit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the United States and Europe, many thousands of Christians began to study the good in all religions and learned to know and to love the inner essence of the Teachings of Muhammad.1


XX:11, February 1930
page 325
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Through the bounty and favour of God think nothing difficult or impossible.  God is so bountiful that He brings fire out from the stone; inflammable matter jets out from the interior of the earth; out of the black dust of the soil He produces beautiful flowers; from the bottom of the ocean He brings pearls and corals.  When the Light of His favour is shed upon us the darkness is fled.
__________
The point is this, that in the path of Truth every difficulty is made plain and every trial is a matchless bounty ...  The Bahá'í Movement bestows upon man a new spirit, a new light, and a new motion.  It enlarges the sphere of thought.  It illumines the horizon of the intellect.  It expands the arena of comprehension.
__________
Be thou solute and steadfast.  When the tree is firmly rooted it will bear fruit, therefore it is not permitted to be agitated by any test.  Be thou not disheartened!  Be thou not discouraged!  The trials of God are many, but if man remains firm and steadfast the test itself is a stepping stone for the progress of humanity.


XX:11, February 1930
page 331
A visit to Queen Marie of Rumania
Martha L. Root
Her great and beloved Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania, the first Queen in this new universal cycle of civilization to arise promoting the Principles of Bahá'u'lláh for better world understanding, invited the writer for the fourth time into her presence to meet her and her youngest daughter, her charming Royal Highness Princess Ileana.  The other audiences had been in Controceni Palace in Bucharest, in Pelisor Palace in Sinaia and in the Royal Palace in Belgrade when Her majesty was visiting there.
But this fourth visit was the most lovely, unique and happiest of them all.  It was an invitation to her summer palace "Tenha-Yuva" at Balcic, on the Black Sea.
O reader, take the mental automobile and accompany me, and you will journey into a new landscape; see an extraordinary palace, marvellous architecturally and absolutely beyond compare in colour harmonies.  It was designed by the Queen herself and it expresses her ideal of a little home to dwell in where every member of the household can live in perfect poise and joy and can be alone when he or she wishes to be.  The palace is built on sheer, sternly rising white cliffs overlooking the Black Sea, a sea so melodious in its surging, so malachite green at the foot of the cliffs, so black in the distance far out where it mirrors the low hanging deep blue clouds.
No one except Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania would have dared attempt to build a palace on that glorious but almost impossible site.  I am sure no once except Her Majesty Queen Marie could have persuaded her husband and the Rumanian Ministers to let her try to do such a thing!  But they must have been exceedingly proud of this splendid triumph; and proud of their Queen who had the brains, the courage, the architectural genius, the colour fineness to create this most original and fair "pearl" of a palace, "set" in the platinum grey of perpendicular rocks, and nearly circled by the sea.  It is the most unusual setting and the most unusual palace in Europe.
The writer was so longing to see Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania that she could hardly notice the exterior life of Balcic, wonderful as it all was.  Only subconsciously she noted and was pleased that this tiny little village of Balcic stretching around the rocks like a prelude to the palace setting, had flags flying at every door in honour of their precious Queen.
She sat alone in the motor car halted at the royal entrance gate while her card was being sent on to the palace in the distance.
Suddenly a bugler comes out on the cliffs far above and to the right and began to play a welcome.  Yodlers on still higher rocks echoed the sweet sounds.  What a hospitable welcome from a Bahá'í Queen to the messenger who is bringing
Page 332
the greetings from the Guardian of the Cause Shoghi Effendi and the devoted good wishes of Bahá'ís from every land!
The Commissar of the palace met the guest and showed her to a charming little palace which she thought was the Queen's home, but no, it was the guest palace!  There are several little palaces so each one can have his own quarters here at "Tenha-Yuva."  There in the guest palace the writer was shown into a room full of autumn colours so warm, so vivid, so fresh and vibrant with beauty!  Surely the Queen must have arranged these flowers, they were so exquisite.  I felt she had been there and placed them herself and her presence had blessed the apartment.
The other guests came from their rooms and we went down the stone steps, admiring each terrace gay with perfect flowers, not too many but growing just in the right places.  A pumpkin vine with its flat, round, yellow fruit rested over the roof of a little rest house.  Blue larkspurs were charming along a yellow grey wall and thousands of burnt orange zinnias massed the lower terraces.  Passing a great oak tree bending far out over the sea and just back of it a stream of sweet water, we came to the palace which is just at the edge of the sea.
It is wondrously beautiful.
In the long wide entrance hall with its white side walls adorned with tile mosaics in rare blue, the great dark oak table has a collection of very historic old pewter vases, pitchers, and bowls from Turkey.  Brilliant red zinnias mixed with gold were the flowers in bowls here, giving just the rich touch of colour that brought out the beauty of the art treasures and furnishings.
Then we go into the dining room where the great windows overlook the sea.  Such a dining room!  There colour and grace and harmony play together and please every eye.  The long dark oak carved table is set with a Chinese blue silk cloth embroidered with silver eagles, and arranged on this are low bowls of glowing gold and orange bronze flowers, rare silver pieces and crystal.  The open fireplace has a cheerful warmth to offer and the whole room breathes
Page 333
welcome and great comfort with beauty unsurpassed.  The walls are white and the furniture black walnut richly carved.  Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana was here with some other friends who have come in just ahead of us.  She was so friendly, so radiantly well, so beautiful and happy.  She was dressed in her naval costume for she had just come in from the sea.  She had on a white silk tailored shirt with collar and tie, a blue military coat trimmed with gold braid, a short cloth skirt and grey hose.  The sister of Her Majesty, Princess Hohenlohe, who came from her feudal castle, Langenburg, in Wurtemburg, Germany, was a guest that day.
As all were conversing, I saw a moving sunshine-yellow silk curtain which was hung at the window back of the circular arch and in that moment down the circular open stairway, pausing in the white arch, came her dear Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania.  She was beautiful, a little pale, and very slender.  She was dressed in black with touches of white at the throat, and cuffs of white peeped through the wider openings of her graceful black cloak or abá.  She wore the wonderful ropes of pearls and each ear was adorned with one large round pearl.  Her "Juliet" or rather "Marie" headdress was of white silk.  One does not think of naming this Queen's attire as "clothes".  They are not something that she just "puts on".  They are a tout ensemble creation chosen by a consummate artist to express her moods, her spirit.
People may say she loves clothes, but perhaps she is not dressing just for herself, but for eyes to see perfect art and perfect beauty.  She is born a great artist and to her it would be a crime not to express beauty in everything she wears and in everything she arranges in her home.  Certainly her gowns and her furnishings-some of which are very expensive and some inexpensive-delight and uplift every passing eye.
But it is the lofty great spirit looking out through the windows of her beautiful eyes that one sees first, and last, and remembers longest.  She greeted the Bahá'í visitor graciously and invited her to sit beside her at her left, at table.  Her Majesty's sister sat at the right.  The conversation, which was general, was in English, French and German.  Her Majesty sat at one end of the great table and Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana at the other.
Her Majesty in a little interlude explained to me that "Tenha-Yuva" is a Turkish word and means "a solitary nest".
"I saw the beautiful tree leaning over the sea," she said, "and the sweet water stream flowing back of it.  The tree and the stream decided me to build here."
In the distance we saw the little yacht of Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana close to the warship and Her Majesty said:  "It is not really a yacht; it is a yawl and it is called Isprava, that means a happy adventure."
Then the conversation flowed back to other topics.  Several kings and presidents were spoken of and each time Her Majesty praised their work for this generation.  When the writer spoke of President
Page 334
Thomas G. Masaryk of Czechoslovakia, what a savant he is, and how much he is admired and loved in university circles of Europe, Her Majesty responded:  "Yes, he is loved everywhere.  He is one of the great humanitarians of this century."
Later in the luncheon conversation one of the men present said jokingly:  "Well, Ileana, what Prince have the newspapers engaged you to today?"  "Every day my poor Ileana is supposed to marry some one else!" said the Queen.  "I shall not let her go away in a hurry, if I can help it."
The writer told them of a country where the young men said:  "If you do meet Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana, tell her we all wish her to marry our King!"
Anyway, whoever wins this sweet and serious girl will find that underneath the fun and gayety is a young woman who is trying her very best to help humanity.  She is spiritual and her whole life is based upon religion.  That is what impressed me most.  She is genuine, very lovable, and she is full of enthusiasm.
After the luncheon was over, Her Majesty Queen Marie of Rumania and Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana invited the writer upstairs to their drawing room for a little talk alone, the others going over to the guest palace.  Sitting in this glorious apartment overlooking the singing sea, the real meeting with Her Majesty and Her Royal Highness took place.  The Queen asked about Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause, and about the sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whose name is Bábíyyih, but who is known among the friends as the Greatest Holy Leaf.  The Queen said she would like so much to meet them; she would like to go to Haifa and 'Akká and pray at the holy tombs of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and visit the great prison where Bahá'u'lláh and His family and followers were imprisoned.  Her loved Majesty said:  "Ileana and I will go to Egypt and Palestine this winter after the New Year and we shall surely go to Haifa."  Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana told me:  "I am always looking forward to going to Haifa; I shall go when I can."
They asked about the long trip the writer is going to make to the Far East.  Knowing that I came
Page 335
from Constantinople to bring the greetings of the Guardian and the friends throughout the world and to see her and say goodbye before I leave Europe and that I am returning at once to Constantinople, Her Majesty said:  "I hope as soon as you return you will be able to see the Ghází Kamál Páshá.  I know he has done such tremendous work for the development of his country, and he is so liberal in his thinking that the Bahá'í Principles would lead him to that part he is still looking for-religion that is not fanaticism.  The Bahá'í Cause gives everything, without putting those barriers from which free thinkers with such difficulty have freed themselves.  One is not chained by the Bahá'í Teachings.  There is a straight road to walk on in admitting all the great Prophets who have gone before."
Then we spoke of her lovely home in Balcic which she has created.  No flowers in Constantinople or in Constanza were so fine as those grown in her cliff gardens (where it is difficult to grow anything).  Her home designed by herself might almost be a holy house, for the tower rises up a little like those in the Rumanian churches.  "I love this home in Balcic so much," she said, "for in this region there are so many different nationalities united.  We can smile on all equally and spread good understanding.  Here in Balcic and round about no one has closed doors or windows to the country houses."
Mention was made of the Turks for there are some in that part of Rumania, and Her Majesty added:  "I am very fond of the simple Turk.  He is hard working, frugal, honest and devoted."  Certainly the nationalities get along happily here.
Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana has an atelier here in Balcic and she is modelling a Bulgarian, a Turk, a Rumanian and a Russian.  I was interested in this earnest and beautiful Princess who sat on the divan close to her mother.
"Whenever I have a difficult mission which requires amiability and diplomacy," said the Queen, "I send Ileana.  I can always count upon her to do it as I would do it myself, and she has youth and strength, which are added assets.  My daughter has a brave spirit to do.  I can use for her the words in the Bible which I always use for myself:  'Whatsoever thy hand bindeth to do, do it with thy might.'"
Her Royal Highness Princess Ileana had to leave early.  She was going out on the gunboat to do some manoeuvring, as she is just learning how to bring a ship to pier.  "The naval work is my pastime," she said before she departed, "but my real work is the Young Women's Christian Association and Girl Guides and I am very interested in all progressive social work, and all that will help for the future.  I throw my whole soul into anything that will be helpful for the country."
They were so kind to give the photographs, autographed, which form the illustrations of this narrative.  An Indian one (which may be published at another time) was taken in the United States, where the Indians called the Queen
Page 336
"Morning Star, the woman we have always waited for!"
Her beloved Majesty gave a beautiful picture to be sent to Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause, and with it she sent a message of love and faith.
And now, like the ceasing of music, the visit in its outer form comes to an end, but the Queen and the Princess, for whom Bahá'u'lláh and the Hosts of the Supreme Concourse have waited, have arisen to promote these Teachings for the New Day of God.  One saw them doing it, right there in the little group of "the solitary nest" and from those white cliffs that day went a message that may reverberate around the world and be acclaimed by the Angels of the Abhá Kingdom!


XXI:2, May 1930
page 47
Dynamics of prayer
Ruth J. Moffett
The archaeologists have discovered that before the dawn of recorded history, even the earliest primitive man has worshipped a super being and has believed in immortality.  The Neanderthal Man, which is represented in the newly placed group at the Field Museum, Chicago, existed 50,000 BC.  With the discovery of those skeletons was found indications of primitive worship and belief in immortality.  Mr Henry Field, director of the Field Museum, says that a very recent discovery indicates that a great flood occurred at about 4,000 BC and still earlier time of Noah, referred to in our Bible, was probably only about 3,000 BC.  A recent discovery reveals this interesting inscription:  "In the land of Kish (which was the first capital after the first flood) there are legends of earlier races 30,000 years before our inscriptions begin."
From different excavated art pieces and implements, from crude frescoes on the walls of caves, from the skeletons found in various places is clearly indicated that inherent in the very centre of man's being, there always has been an inner urge impelling him to look beyond his sense perception, beyond his consciousness to a Creator, an urge to implore that Creator for help in time of trouble, and guidance in time of danger.  Our ancestors worshipped this Creator in the storm, the lightning, the famine, the sun, moon, comets, eclipses-in anything that inspired awe and wonder.  Gradually throughout the panorama of cycles, man's conception of this Supreme Being has unfolded as his consciousness has expanded.  Although the methods of worship have changed through every conceivable form, yet the keynote of all, throughout this stupendous symphony around which all the melodies, discords and harmonies weave in mystical upliftment-is prayer.
__________
What is prayer?  There are many beautiful definitions by the Prophets of God.  "Prayer is loving service."  "Prayer is the soliloquy of the beholding soul."  But the one I like is, "Prayer is the practice of the Presence of God."
A careful analysis reveals that there are nine ways in which man turns his heart to God, or tries to practice the Presence of God.  The one with which we are most familiar is:
Supplication.  This is a humble, earnest entreaty, with a sense of dependence upon what is greater than ourselves.  We remember the words of Paul, "God is an ever present source of help in time of trouble."  We have all lifted our consciousness many times by this impelling motive to prayer.  And also;
Compunction.  This is an uneasiness of mind arising from wrong doing.  It is the sting of conscience, or a sense of remorsefulness.  This
Page 48
feeling of unworthiness we find in many of the Psalms:  "Feed me O Lord with the bread of tears, and give me plenteousness of tears to drink." Psalms 140:5.  Compunction also compels us to prayer, as does:
Aspiration.  This is the longing, usually unexpressed, for what is above one's present attainment, a somewhat vague longing for what is pure, noble and spiritual.  Alger says, "It is not aspiration but ambition that is the mother of misery in man."  We all have these vague longings and aspirations within us, which lead us into the prayer life.  The next is,
Intercession.  This has been described as entreaty in behalf of others.  We remember these familiar words of the Prophets of God, "The service of others is perfected by prayer," ('Abdu'l-Bahá) "Let your light so shine before men that they, in seeing your good works will glorify your Father which art in Heaven."  "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, ye have done it unto me." (Christ)  "Withhold not from my servant in whatsoever he may ask of thee, for his face is My face, and thou must reverence Me." (Bahá'u'lláh)
Gratitude.  Gratitude is also we know the cause of lifting the heart upward.  It is the sense of appreciation for favours or bounties received.  Gratefulness wells up in the heart and finds expression in prayer, as for example the words of David, "Oh give thanks unto the Lord for He is good, for His mercies endureth forever."  Also the words of Bahá'u'lláh, "Praise be to Thee O God of Names and Creator of Heaven, Praise be to Thee for that by reason of which Thou hast made known to Thy servants, Thy Day, wherein the River of Life hath flowed from the Finger of Thy Generosity, and the Spring of Revelation and Unity hath become manifest through Thy Manifestation to whomsoever is in the earth and heaven.  Praise be to Thee, O Desire of the world!  Praise be to Thee O Beloved of the hearts of the yearning!"
Meditation.  Meditation and prayer are not exactly synonymous.  We are told that meditation is the continued thought about those things beyond the physical world.  Both meditation and contemplation are necessary as one develops in the practice of the Presence of God.  Meditation begins with continued reason, we are told, merging into a state of calm reflection and devotional pondering on statements of thoughts, ideas and principles about God.  This seems to be a high intellectual process, while contemplation might be described as beginning with continued attention, merging into a state of beholding, a looking to God, resulting in spiritual perception.  This seems to be a combination of the highest intellectual and emotional processes.  Mara Williams in his book Hinduism says, "A true Buddhist never prays, he only meditates on the perfections of Buddha, and the hope of attaining Nirvana."
Oblation.  May be described as the act of offering something as a sacrifice in worship.  As man's ideas of God have changed, the form of oblation has changed from the offering of burnt offerings of many kinds of animal and human flesh, to the offering of fruits and
Page 49
grains with prayers.  Later, sweet smelling incense was used until the more advanced souls have learned to sacrifice the self consciousness to the God Consciousness, and to give the self in hallowed consecration and joyous dedication.  As in the words of Bahá'u'lláh.  "Draw me unto Thee O My Divine Centre, by the secret springs of my existence, and all my powers and senses shall follow Thy potent magnetism."
Adoration.  Adoration has quite a different heart motive.  It is the act of rendering divine homage, of rendering veneration and reverence to the Divine Being.  It is a joyful, spontaneous uplift of deep feelings of love, admiration, awe and devotion.  We the servants of God have much to learn of the way to turn our hearts to God in adoration and to learn the real meaning of the words of Bahá'u'lláh as expressed in the daily prayer, "O God Thou hast created us to know and to adore Thee."
Communion is the combination of several of the foregoing urges.  It is the interchange or inter communion of spirit, or the spirit's conversation with God.  There is the longing on the part of the soul to receive wisdom, guidance, light and the opening of the soul, not to receive the answer to this or that minor question, but to receive illumination, the Christos or the Logos.  "As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after Thee, O God." (Psalm 42:1)  "My love is in thee.  Seek, and thou wilt find Me near.  I have placed within thee, a spirit from Me, that thou mightiest be My lover."  "Love Me that I may love thee; if thou lovest Me not, My love can in no wise reach thee." (Bahá'u'lláh)
We can learn a valuable lesson from the little girl who, when she was asked why it took her so long to pray, said, "You see, I always like to wait to hear what God has to say back to me."
These nine urges to prayer supplication compunction, aspiration, intercession, gratitude, meditation, adoration, oblation and communion are all necessary for the practice of the Presence of God.  Some religious groups emphasize and practice one or two to the exclusion of the others.  Each urge is important and all are essential, though all need not be used at the same time.  Any one without all the other steps is incomplete.  The expression of each urge indicates the progress the soul is making on the path of God.
__________
Prayer, may be expressed in four ways, the Thought Prayer, with more or less definite thoughts and ideas; the Heart Prayer, which is a vague, high, emotional aspiration.  The Will Prayer, which is expressed in various forms of affirmation.  And last the Uttered Prayer which is the expressed thought, idea and aspiration of the one praying.  These are best expressed in the words revealed by the great Prophets of God.  There is great power in the spoken word, and there is great wisdom in using the words revealed by the great World Teachers, all of whom have revealed prayers for the upliftment of the
Page 50
people.  The Bahá'í Revelation contains the most abundant and richest material for prayer life.
__________
While in Haifa, the beloved Guardian of the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh, Shoghi Effendi, gave to the writer, the most concise, complete and effective formula she has ever seen, for the Dynamics of Prayer.  After saying to stress the need of more prayer and meditation among the friends, he said to use these five steps if we had a problem of any kind for which we desired a solution, or wished help.  (First step) Pray and mediate about it.  Use the prayers of the Manifestations as they have the greatest power.  Then remain in the silence of contemplation for a few moments.
(Second step) Arrive to a decision and hold this.  This decision is usually born during the contemplation.  It may seem almost impossible of accomplishment, but if it seems to be an answer to prayer or a way of solving the problem, then immediately take the next step.
(Third step) Have determination to carry the decision through.  Many fail here.  The decision, budding in to determination is blighted and instead becomes a wish or a vague longing.  When determination is born, immediately take the next step.
(Fourth step) Have faith and confidence, that the power will flow through you, the right way will appear, the door will open, the right thought, the right message, the right principle or the right book will be given you.  Have confidence, and the right thing will come to your need.  Then as you rise from prayer take at once the fifth step.
(Fifth step) Then he said, lastly, Act!  Act as though it had all been answered.  Then act with tireless, ceaseless energy.  And, as you act, you, yourself will become a magnet which will attract more power to your being, until you become an unobstructed channel for the Divine Power to flow through you.  Many pray, but do not remain for the last half of the first step.  Some who meditate arrive at a decision, but fail to hold it.  Few have the determination to carry the decision through, and still fewer have the confidence that the right thing will come to their need.  But how many remember to act as though it had all been answered?  How true are those words "Greater than the prayer is the spirit in which it is uttered", and greater than the way it is uttered is the spirit in which it is carried out.
Now out of a few simple words by our wise Guardian, a great light has shone.  Out of this light has grown an effective method of practicing prayer, out of which has grown a long trail of prayers answered and problems solved, and out of this method of practicing prayer has grown a new life in the most ancient of human acts of worship.
__________
Many have asked to whom shall we pray?  All the Manifestations have taught the same answer, to God through that great Cosmic Focal Point that stands between the finite and Infinite absolute station of Unknowableness.  That is the way taught by all the Messengers of God.  The Manifes-
Page 51
station is the Way of Prayer.
In conclusion may we add these thoughts.  He who is in need will pray.  He who hesitates to supplicate God is standing in the station of pride, or has not awakened to his own need, or has not realized the great value of prayer.  He is therefore deprived.  Therefore let all our business be to-know God.  The more we know of Him the more we shall desire to know Him, and as knowledge is the measure of love, the deeper and more extensive our knowledge is, the deeper our love is.  "The root of all knowledge is the knowledge of God."
The Presence of God is realized within, but is evoked by something from without.  When these two streams meet on the fifth step enunciated by Shoghi Effendi, the exterior life becomes an act of worship, and we have learned-the Dynamics of Prayer or the Practice of the Presence of God.


XXI:2, May 1930
page 54
The only pictures of the Báb
Martha L. Root
Those who have seen the beautiful painting of His Holiness the Báb in Haifa and gazed upon that pure Face will be interested to hear from whence came this painting.  On the evening of 26 January 1930, just before I was to arise and speak to one hundred and fifty friends in a great drawing room in Tihrán, I suddenly caught sight of a large photograph which looked like the Báb.  I asked my interpreter, Mr Valíyu'lláh Varqá and he said:  "No, that is not an authentic photograph of His Holiness the Báb, it may have been drawn from memory of the one in Haifa.  But on the way home after the lecture I can tell you about the only paintings there are of His Holiness the Báb."
So coming back to the hotel he told me this thrilling story:  "You asked about the painting of the Báb:  I begin at the beginning.  When the Báb was captured by the Persian Government, he was at last taken to Urúmíyyih near Tabríz.  There when He wanted to go to bathe, the Governor of the city sent Him a most spirited horse which no one could manage.  He thought that the Báb would try to ride it and be thrown and killed.  However, in the presence of the Báb the horse became very quiet and even bent for the Báb to mount it.  The people, all non-Bahá'ís, who saw the Báb go and come on this horse shouted that it was a miracle, and He was a holy man.  They ran to the bath and collected the water in bottles, considering it blessed water.  One of those who saw the people come in crowds and came, too, to observe, was the painter to Muzaffari'd-Dín Sháh (though at that time he was still the Crown Prince).  This painter was engaged only to do his work.  'This painter, some years later, became a Bahá'í under my father's teaching (my father was 'Alí Muhammad Varqá).  Then the painter told my father about going with the crowd to see the Báb in Urúmíyyih before the time of martyrdom.  This painter told father that at that time he conceived the idea of painting the Báb without the latter's knowledge.  He prepared paper and pencils for a sketch and went into His holy presence.  People were listening to the Báb Who was seated on a rug on the ground.  One corner of the 'abá was thrown back.  As soon as the artist entered, the Báb drew the 'abá into place, folded His hands one upon the other and looked at the painter as much as to say that He was ready!  The painter studied the Báb's Face and then went out and drew.  He returned again and again and each time the Báb took His original position, thus the sketch was made.
"The painter showed this sketch to my father, and father asked him to make a coloured painting from this sketch in order that it might be sent as a gift to Bahá'u'lláh in 'Akká.  This was done, and when Bahá'u'lláh received this painting, He was very happy and said, 'This is the Báb!'  In those days photography was not known and that sketch had been the only one made of the Báb during His life-
Page 55
time.  Bahá'u'lláh called one of the uncles of the Báb, showed him the painting and asked, 'Do you know this face?'  Instantly the uncle replied, 'Yes, it is the Báb!'
"Bahá'u'lláh at once sent one of His 'abás to my father asking him to give it to the painter.  My father, at the time he had sent the painting, had asked permission from Bahá'u'lláh to have nine paintings made and sent to nine important cities in Persia to be kept by believers in special places.  In answer Bahá'u'lláh had given permission for the painter to make only one more and that was to be given to my father.  No more were to be made.  This painting of the Báb which my father had was confiscated by the Government with other papers, but when I was in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá He promised me that sometime this will be given back to our family.  Siyyid Asadu'lláh found the sketch made by this painter in the home of a Bahá'í family in Persia and he sent it to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 'Akká.  Thus the painting of His Holiness the Báb and the one sketch are now preserved in Haifa, the other painting is lost for the present, and aside from these there is no other authentic painting or photograph of the Báb."
Such is the interesting story told to me by Mr Valíyu'lláh Varqá.  American friends will remember him for he came to the United States with 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 1912.


XXI:8, November 1930
page 230
The first feminist martyr
[Qurratu'l-'Ayn]
Mírzá Núri'd-Dín-i-Zayn (Zeine)
Mr Zayn, the author of this valuable article, is a graduate of the American University of Beirut and is now a teacher of sociology in that splendid institution.  He has a remarkable background.  His grandfather, Jinábí Zayn, left Persia and followed Bahá'u'lláh first to Baghdád and later to 'Akká where he spent the rest of his life as one of His amanuenses, so the family first lived in 'Akká and later in Haifa.  We are fortunate to have for the Bahá'í Magazine the accurate material which Mr Zayn has sent us a picturesque and dramatic account of the tragic story of Qurratu'l-'Ayn, the far famed Persian feminist and poetess, the first woman martyr for the freedom of women.
"You can kill me as soon as a you like, but you cannot stop the emancipation of women" so said the Persian feminist and poetess Qurratu'l-'Ayn, when she was imprisoned in 1850.
Born from a noble family, her keen and sagacious intelligence and her fervid eloquence very soon filled all those who came in contact with her, with awe and admiration.  Awe, because in her controversies with the most learned men, she was ever triumphant.  Admiration, because in a time when most of her country women could not read or write, she displayed such marvellous powers of learning and speech.
Her beauty matched her elocution.  But it was a grand, a commanding, a majestic beauty.  On one occasion, it is so related, when she was delivered up to the government authorities, she was brought before the Sháh, who, on seeing her, said:  "I like her looks; leave her and let her be".  On another occasion, the festivities and rejoicing of a wedding were going on in the house of one of the Persian nobles.  When Qurratu'l-'Ayn came in the ladies of the court and other distinguished guests who were present were so much attracted by the charm of her looks and so greatly impressed by the beauty of her speech that, "forgetting the festivities, they gathered round her, diverted, by listening to her words, from listening to the melodies, and rendered indifferent, by witnessing her marvels, to the contemplation of the pleasant and novel sights which are incident to a wedding".
It means very little to say that Qurratu'l-'Ayn was in advance of her age, unless one says also what that age was.  Persia, nay the East in general, was in a deplorable state.  Ignorance and superstitions prevailed; intolerance and bigotry waxed high.  Education was neglected.  The rights of women were slighted.  Such were some of the conditions during that age.  Filled with a passionate desire to change all that situation she raised her voice against it, discussed and debated with doctors and sages, and addressed the meetings of the most eminent men.  At the beginning she used to carry on her discussions and talks from behind a curtain, but later she threw aside her veil, thus adding the power of her looks to the potency of her words.  To lay aside the veil and speak in public, at a time when "women were secluded in harems and had to be closely veiled if they appeared
Page 231
in public places" when it was considered impolite for them to speak to men, needed a heroic courage.  The very ideas she propounded endangered her life.  Yet her courage never failed her and her heart never recoiled from the oppressions and persecutions that she received at the hand of her enemies.  By day and night, and accompanied by a few women who had become inspired by her noble ideas, she travelled in Persia from city to city, pleading with men and women everywhere to abandon their prejudices and superstitions and love truth; to put aside hatreds and jealousies and live in harmony and good will with each other.  She championed the cause of education of both sexes and fought for the freedom and rights of her kind.  Her fame now spread far and wide so that "most people who were scholars or mystics sought to hear her speech and were eager to become acquainted with her powers of speculation and deduction."
Finally, the clergy were alarmed:  her vehement and tumultuous ideas confounded them, and her courage and steadfastness in spreading those ideas filled them with apprehension.  The people were aroused to molest her, and eventually, she was delivered up to the government authorities.  It was then that she pronounced those heroic words with which this account begins.  She was imprisoned for two years.  Then in August 1852, a disastrous attempt was made on the Sháh's life.  Many people were arrested, horribly tortured and condemned to death.  And she was one of the innocent victims of that fatal day.
Qurratu'l-'Ayn met a very painful and lingering death.  The story of her execution is a very tragic one.  She was delivered over to one of the military authorities-a Sardár-who was made responsible for her execution.  In Tihrán "she was placed in the house of the Kalántar, a town official who was made responsible for her custody".
"Three days" (the Kalántar's wife related) "our beloved guest stayed in her room chanting prayers-eating little and seldom.  On the morning of the third day she said to me:  'Tonight, they will come for me'.  She gave to me a bottle of attar of roses, a ring, and a handkerchief-her only possessions-all she had left of her former riches."1
Another account has it that Qurratu'l-'Ayn had put on a snow white robe of pure silk before her execution.  When asked by her guardian, early in the evening, why she had changed her dress, "I will be going on a long journey tonight," she had answered.  And so by dint of feminine intuition, she had known the time of her death.  As the leaden footed hours of the night were passing one by one and the silence of nature grew deeper, the beginning of that journey was drawing nigh.  "Chanting prayers, she waited, waited, prepared and ready for what she knew would come!"1
And that evening they came.
It was the fifteenth of September 1852.  The lights of the city of Tihrán were going out one by one.  People were sleeping.  The richly coloured domes and minarets of the
Page 232
capital shone pale in the light of the moon.  A sad moonlight was shining through the window of the room where the beautiful Qurratu'l-'Ayn was confined.  It was a room in the garden of the Sardár near the gates of the city, to which she had been brought that same evening.  The stars were so pale!  And the night was so still, so silent, as if the whole creation was watching breathlessly in dreadful expectation of a bitter and heartrending tragedy.
At about midnight, for the first time, the tranquil silence was broken by the sounds of some footsteps.  Presently a key turned in the lock, the door opened slowly, and a handsome young Turk entered the room of Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  He held a silken handkerchief in his hand.  She, sitting on the floor in the middle of the room, was praying.  As he moved towards her, she suddenly raised her head, threw at him one of her piercing glances and said in a clear and dignified voice:  "Young man, it becomes you not to be my executioner, and to perform such a crime."  Horror stricken by those words, the young Turk refused to touch her, turned back, and ran out of the door "like a madman".  It is said that he dashed into the room where his master, the Sardár, was awaiting him, flung at his feet the fatal handkerchief and the money he had received as a bribe, and said:  "I am ready to kill myself and not shoulder the responsibility of this woman's death."
A few moments later, another person entered the room of the prisoner.  He was a heavy set, coarse, ugly looking man.  And he was drunk.  He held the same handkerchief in his hand.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn had finished her prayers, but she was still sitting on the floor.  As his looks fell upon her, his wolfish eyes flashed with ferocity born half of intoxication and half of his own beast like nature.  Without a moment's hesitation, he threw himself upon the unfortunate young woman and accomplished his dark deed-he strangled her with the handkerchief.  There were still signs of life in her when he drew her out of the room.  Here he met others who were sent to help him in the accomplishment of the Sardár's fiendish scheme.  They dragged her to the rim of a dry well and threw her into it.  Immediately the well was filled up with large and heavy stones.  It was midnight.
The moon had now sunk behind the snow clad Elburz mountains.  The shadows of the domes and the minarets grew deeper and blacker.  Darkness enveloped the city of Tihrán.  There was not any light save the pale glimmering of the lonely stars.  As the men were returning from the well, something fluttered on a rosebush near by.  Apparently a nightingale disturbed in her sleep.  At the same time a loud shrill sound of a cock pierced the appalling silence of the night.  Also a wind was growing, "a wind that laid a cold finger upon flesh and spirit."  And the leaves that laid without a sound on the trees began to whisper again.  It seemed that the creation was beginning to breathe once more; but there was something in that breath that resembled a deep sigh, like the sigh that is drawn by the audience when the curtain falls on the last act of a
Page 233
mournful tragedy.  And we can, with a profound certainty, say that the silent stars, that night, looked down upon one of the most ferocious and cruel acts of man.
Thus ended the life of one who "like a lily of the desert growing amongst ruins, gave flowers and perfumes to surrounding moral devastation".  Why?  Because she believed, she believed in the great new Message of the Báb; and because she, fearlessly, unwaveringly, enthusiastically, delivered that Message to the people of her country.  "The Báb said of her:  'Lo! she answered My call, even before I had called her.'"  She believed that that Call was the Truth.
The story of her conversion is in itself a testimony to her keen spiritual sense and deep receptiveness to truth.  "One never-to-be-forgotten day," writes Lady Blomfield,1 she (Qurratu'l-'Ayn) was turning some books and papers in the library of a more enlightened cousin, when she found a little leaflet, the first words attracted her attention, she read on and on, she became more and more interested then thrilled and excited!
"'Who wrote this?' She cried to her cousin who came in.
"'What have you there?  What has happened?  Why are you so agitated?
"'But you must tell me who wrote this.'  She showed the leaflet to him.  Then it was his turn to be agitated.
"'You have found that, where?  Oh, I cannot tell you about it, you should never have seen it!  It is a very secret matter!  It should have been securely and carefully concealed.
"'Now that I have seen it,' and her voice shook with excitement, 'you must tell me about it, my cousin.'
"He still hesitated, but at last, yielding to her enthusiasm, he said:  'It is written by Shaykh Siyyid Kázim-keep it a secret, closely guarded-the risk of a terrible danger would attend its discovery!'
"'So this wonderful pamphlet is by Shaykh Kázim-i-Rashtí and Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá'í?  And this is what they teach their disciples?  But it is the Truth, every shining word of it ...'"
And once the fire of that Truth kindled her soul, her faith became dynamic.  From the moment when she believed the Truth until the hour of her martyrdom, she followed the demand of the venerated Shaykh teacher, Shaykh Kázim-i-Rashtí: ... "then let all the world know".  No wonder then if E. G. Browne wrote "Had the Bábí (Bahá'í) religion no other claim to greatness, this were sufficient that it produced a heroine like Qurratu'l-'Ayn".
More than seventy years ago, Qurratu'l-'Ayn, throwing back her veil, told her countrymen:  "Why do you sleep?  Awake from your beds of negligence.  The sun hath arisen from the day spring of pre-existence.  Why do you drown yourselves in the sea of materialism?  Behold the resplendent light!  Listen to the songs of the New Age.  A new life is breathed into all existing things.  The zephyrs of the divine favour are wafting upon you."
Page 234
Does not the world need that message today when the moral life of the people everywhere is becoming loose, when ancient customs and cherished beliefs are disintegrating, when the economic forces are threatening disaster, when the threads of political relations are sorely strained and tangled?
Let the politicians in their offices of State, and the leaders of religion in their houses of worship and the teachers of youth in their educational institutions-who are all in a great measure responsible for the establishment of Peace and Order in the world-let them turn their gaze to the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh and see for themselves if it is not therein that lies "a supreme instrument for the establishment of the Most Great Peace, and the one agency for the unification of the world, and the proclamation of the reign of righteousness and justice upon the earth."1


XXII:2, May 1931
page 45
Zamenhof:  the man
L. N. Newelt
This article, reprinted from "International Language", gives an excellent picture of the man who created Esperanto.  The author calls him a genius.  It would seem clear, however, that his success was due not only to genius, but to divine guidance, which flowed to him because of his utter sincerity, devotion and self sacrifice in the spread of the great ideal of an international auxiliary language.
Zamenhof was an indefatigable worker.  All his life, except during the days of his last illness, he had to struggle to keep his family, and for an oculist amongst poor people, the struggle was a bitter one.  From Esperanto he made no profit, except royalties on the sale of his works, which certainly did not make good the losses caused by the inevitable neglect of his practice.  Lack of money made difficult even travelling to the international congresses; the childlike excitement discernible in his letters on his journey to the Sixth Universal Congress in Washington shows how great was the event in his life, and how great were the efforts which it cost.  In spite of money worries, ill health, bitter opposition and mockery, he fought on and worked unceasingly, and in none of his work is there any sign of discouragement (except, perhaps, in the poems Ho'mia kor' and Mia penso) or bitterness.
One looks for the motive which enabled him to persist and conquer.  As we have seen, it was not love of money.  Nor was it ambition or love of power, for when, in 1889, it was proposed that the American Philosophical Society should call an international conference of scientists to elect an auxiliary language, he offered to hand the matter over to them entirely and "to retire from the scene"; and, as we know, at a later date (as soon as it was practicable) he gave up all rights in his invention and all official positions.  He wished for none of these.  His aim was to give humanity peace and ease from the suffering caused by dissension and war, and he saw that a neutral means of communication would be one of the most important factors in achieving that aim.  He was an idealist through and through, and he strove for his ideals
Page 46
with a passionate tenacity which sprang from the simplicity of his character.  That simplicity gave him the strength to inspire his followers with his own ideals; to that fact it is due that Esperanto survived the early years.  At times he showed even a touch of naivety, as, for instance, when he proposed to collect the names and addresses of ten million people who would promise to learn Esperanto, before asking any one to begin to study.
But he was shrewd, too.  He expected no miracles, and foresaw opposition from the first.  In his first textbook he answered in advance almost all the objections which can be raised against an "artificial" language.  He realized that to make headway, the new language must be stable, and that to be stable, its basis must remain unchanged until the language is universally accepted.  Hence, the principle of the inviolability of the fundamental grammar of Esperanto, which has caused so much controversy.  It is safe to say that Esperanto would have gone the way of a hundred ephemeral projects, dying stillborn, if it had not been protected by this "dogma".  When the famous Delegation was convened in 1907 for the purpose of choosing an international language, he pointed out from the first that it lacked the necessary authority, and that its choice, whatever it might be, would be ineffective; and the Delegation was indeed a fiasco.
He had a vein of wise disillusionment, as is shown by the following paragraph which appeared in La Esperantisto in 1891:
We must not forget that the world has always remained absolutely deaf even to the wisest of moral sermons, but remember that it flies to that which appears to have achieved success.  For ourselves we may realize that our task is still very difficult and perhaps for a long time to come will demand an iron patience; but to the public we must always show a cheerful face.  We must not lie, as the Volapukists did, inventing great and important facts, taken from the air; but also we must not forget that mankind, for whose good we are working, is a sick, obstinate child, who will take no medicine unless we take pains to sweeten it.
We have no record of unkindness or injustice of any kind, but the following letter shows that he could be tart, when occasion justified it:
Your letter is signed:  "One of the warmest friends of the language Esperanto!"  I do in fact remember that from time to time you send me letters asking after the progress of the affair; but you have never written to say what you yourself are doing for our cause.  The "warm friend of our affair" is not he who is always asking questions, but he who works for it and spreads it.  Instead of asking me every month what has been done, you should ask yourself, "What have I done for our affair during the past month?"
I quote these texts to show that Zamenhof's character had its due proportions of salt.  We may guess that many letters like the above were required.
With all his simplicity, perhaps because of his simplicity, he showed in his leadership of the Esperanto movement a sagacity and statesmanship which amounted to genius.  I need not dilate on the innumerable
Page 47
pitfalls besetting the inventor of an instrument used by all sorts of men, in all parts of the world.  It is sufficient to refer the student to the speeches and articles in this book, in which he points out that Esperanto must have a democratic government; that the language must evolve slowly and naturally in use, and not by sudden changes; that it must be tied to no religions or political theory (not even to Zamenhof's own dearest cause, pacificism and internationalism allied with the noblest sort of patriotism).  His sane guidance was the determining factor in the constant and orderly progress of the movement, and his good influence is still felt today.
I have used the word genius.  This is the only word which is adequate when we are considering his creative work on Esperanto.  When he compiled the language, research work on the elements necessary in an artificial language was hardly begun; he must be considered as the pioneer and greatest master of the subject.  Familiarity with the result of his labours does not breed contempt; on the contrary, it is the common experience of those who have studied Esperanto deeply, that their admiration and wonder grow with increasing knowledge.  That is the proof that he worked well; and those who have followed in his steps have never equalled him.  The superiority of Esperanto results partly from that ten years' constant testing which it had before appearing in public; but it results too from the fact that its author was a genius.
"Genius" here includes the term "artist".  It is curious that nowhere in his articles and letters do we find any mention of selection of words, or arrangement of grammar, from the artistic point of view; he never touches on aesthetics.  It is possible that he never presented this side of the question even to himself.  But the beauty of sound and association in Esperanto could have been imported only by one very sensitive to beauty; he was undoubtedly a great, unconscious artist-the language itself is proof of this.
Above all we receive an impression of a modest, lovable man; one who was sincere in all things, an enthusiast who never thrust his views on others; a determined worker who never wavered from his aim.  His personality calls forth a deep respect, and even from those who never knew him in the flesh, an affection which explains the enthusiasm and sacrifices of those who had the privilege of working with him.


XXII:3, June 1931
page 76
Bahá'í pioneers
Part I
Siyyid Mustafa Roumie [Rúmí]
A short historical survey of the Bahá'í Movement in India, Burma, Java Islands, Siam, and Malay Peninsula.
The author, one of the leading Bahá'ís of Mandalay, was in his youth an ardent associate and companion of the great Mírzá Jamál Effendi who first brought the Bahá'í Message to the countries of southern Asia.  These chronicles are both fascinating themselves in the spiritual adventure they narrate, and also invaluable as a history written by one who was an eye witness.
When through the mighty Will of God, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, came out of the terrible prison walls in the fortress of 'Akká (where He had been exiled and incarcerated for a number of years by the Turkish government at the instigation of the fanatical Muslim clergy of Persia) and finally settled at Bahjí, at a distance of about a couple of miles from the Great Prison, His numerous devoted followers and many ardent admirers of His teaching and high ideals poured forth from all corners of the world, especially from Persia, to lay their allegiance at His feet and to receive His command to serve the great Cause of the "upliftment of humanity" for which He and His noble adherents had undergone severe sufferings and privations and suffered diverse humiliations, chastisements and persecutions of which there is hardly a parallel in the history of the world.
Among these followers was a venerable figure of rather an advanced age, a great scholar of Arabic, Turkish and Persian, the selfless striking character of whose personality and whose singular courteous manners most eloquently testified to his noble birth and high rank.  Sulaymán Khán was his original and official name, and Tunukábání in Mázindarán Persia) was his birthplace.  He subsequently came to be known in the Bahá'í world as Jamál Effendi or Jamálu'd-Dín Sháh.  As an orthodox believer in the Báb since the early period of His Declaration, he was well aware of the prophecies regarding the Manifestation of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  Therefore he with peaceful heart pledged his faith in Him.  Leaving his dear home in Persia he renounced all his worldly possessions, very cheerfully gave up his official rank and position and presented himself to His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, offering most humbly and meekly to sacrifice himself at the Holy Threshold of his Lord so that he might attain His supreme pleasure which to him was more precious than all the treasures of the universe put together.  Such was the condition of the early sincere devoted believers.
His Holiness revealed a Tablet conferring upon him the distinguished title of "Lámi" (i.e. the brilliant one).  The opening words of that holy Tablet which was written by the Supreme Pen were as follows:  "O thou the brilliant one!  We have conferred upon thee the title of 'the brilliant one' so that thou mayest shine forth in the universe in the name of thy Lord the Possessor of the Day of Distinction."  He then received a command to proceed to India with his kins-
Page 77
man, Mírzá Husayn, who was directed to accompany him.  These two noble and heroic souls, without the slightest wavering, at once set out from the Holy Land with unflinching determination to serve the Divine Cause, and took the first boat available from Port Said to India.
They landed in Bombay about the year 1872-73.  On their arrival here  they met Jinábí Hájí Siyyid Mírzá Afnán and the great sage Jinábí Hájí Muhammad Ibráhím, "the muballighín"1-both of Yazd (Persia).  Since they were quite strangers to the country and were not acquainted with the language, customs and manners of the people of India, they decided for the time being to act under the advice and guidance of these two gentlemen of Yazd, who were well known as general merchants and commission agents, and had their business of long standing in Fort Bombay under the celebrated name of Messrs. Haji Siyyid Mirza and Mirza Muhammad Co.  So Jamál Effendi's first place of residence in India was "The Hussainieh".  This was a building dedicated to the celebration of the mourning ceremony of Imám Husayn by its founder a zealous Shí'ih philanthropist from Lucknow, India, called Babri Ali.
During his short stay in Bombay Jamál Effendi did not remain inactive.  Despite the language difficulty he managed to deliver the Great Message to many distinguished Persian residents, such as the late Áqá Khán (the then head of the Khoja Ismailieh Community and grandfather of the present well known leader of that Community), and the Persian High Priest of the Shí'ih Isna Asharieh Mosque, Mír Siyyid Muhammad.  The latter accepted the Message and proved to be one of the most confirmed and devout believers.  Within a short period Jamál Effendi became a marked figure in the public eye, and the nature of his activities became widely known, which necessitated his friends advising him in the interests of the Cause and their own protection to leave Bombay and go to the interior provinces of India.  Accordingly he left Bombay and travelled through many important towns proclaiming the glad-tidings everywhere and resurrecting souls from the dark graves of error and prejudice whenever such opportunity presented itself.  Finally he reached Rampur Rohilkhand, which was then under a native chief by the name of Nawab Kalbi Ali Khán, an orthodox Sunní Muslim.  Jamál Effendi was the guest of the chief's uncle Colonel Nawab Asghar Ali Khán.  During the stay there the chief one day arranged for a meeting at his palace of the Muslim clergy of his State for a discussion with him about the Bahá'í doctrine of the "non-existence of evil".  Jamál Effendi in the course of his address told the audience that the Bahá'ís do not believe that there exists any positive evil in the creation.  According to Bahá'í philosophy all is good.  The Creator of all things is but one God.  He is good, and therefore His creation is purely good.  Evil never exists in His creation.  It is a non-existent thing.
At the end of his discourse the High Priest of the State, who was noted for his learning, pointed to the fire on the hubble-bubble which the chief was smoking and question-
Page 78
ed Jamál Effendi.  "Is this not a positive evil?  It may burn the palace and reduce to ashes all present here in no time."
Jamál Effendi answered the question with great eloquence.  He asked the audience to imagine what would be the consequence if fire were to cease to exist upon earth for a moment.  In its absence the very existence of human life would be impossible, as it is a principle element in the creation system believed by the cosmologists, and generally in cold countries people would be simply frozen to death without fire.  We ought to be thankful to the Creator for creating such a useful thing for the preservation of our life.  How can one justly call it a positive evil!  The improper and wrong use of it, as of all things in the world, is undoubtedly an evil.
It is the same with all the natural qualities of man.  If they be used and displayed in an unlawful way they become offenders and blameworthy.  The gist of the Divine Laws in all religions is to use each and everything in its proper place as ordained by its Author.  Then each thing is termed as good and lawful.  Only when used in a wrong place is it called unlawful, evil, or sin.  The chief object of the Prophets of God was to teach this doctrine to mankind according to their condition and the necessity of that time.  Thus have arisen the "Commandments" and "Prohibitions".
He also illustrated the same principle from a pen knife which was shown to him by the Chief.  Referring to it he said, "How useful an article is this.  But its misuse (for example, if it is used for the purpose of stabbing) is an evil.  The creation of metal is not an evil in itself.  It is one of the necessities of our life.  But when men turn it into a deadly weapon it becomes an evil."
The Chief and the whole Assembly of the learned men accepted his scholarly exposition of the doctrine with great applause; and many became interested in the teachings of the New Philosophy of the New Age.
II
About this time in 1876, there was held an historic gathering in Delhi, the ancient capital of the Mogul Empire in India, on the occasion of the assumption of the title of the "Empress of India" by her Majesty Queen Victoria.  Almost all the Rulers of the various Native States with their entourage, high officials of the British Government and many notable persons, Indians as well as non-Indians, came to the gathering.  Jamál Effendi was not slow in taking advantage of a unique opportunity.  There he came in contact with almost all the celebrities of India and quietly unfolded to them the Great Mystery of the age.  He met here Swami Dayanand Saraswati, the founder of the Arya Samaj, and found in him a true and sympathetic friend of the Cause.  Finally he proceeded to Deccan Hyderabad-the Nizam's dominion.  The Nizam being very young at that time Jamál Effendi was introduced to the Prime Minister, Sir Salar Jang Mukhtaru'l Mulk, who was a staunch Shí'ih.  Through the magnetic personality and eloquence of Jamál Effendi this statesman soon became deeply interested in the Bahá'í Movement and eventually a
Page 79
Tablet from the Supreme Pen was revealed in his favour.  (According to the laws of the Kingdom, high officials could not confess openly any religion except their ancestral faith declared on oath, even though they were ruling monarchs.)
His next move was towards Madras, in southern India.  While in Hyderabad and Madras he conceived the idea of visiting Burma and unfurling the banner of Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá on the shore of the Irrawaddy, as he received information that King Mindon of Burma was a monarch of exceptionally generous disposition and absolutely unprejudiced mind, and though himself a Buddhist was tolerant to all forms of worship.  In those days the steamships running between India and Burma were very few in number, so he had to wait for some time before he could catch a boat to take him to Rangoon.  While he was thus waiting, a message from the Chief of Rampur State was received, soliciting his immediate presence there, because the brother of the Chief-Nawab Muhammad Ali Khán-had displayed a tendency towards atheism and it was the conviction of the Chief that Jamál Effendi was the only person qualified to demonstrate to his brother the absurdity of his belief and bring him round to the true faith of Islám.  Jamál Effendi readily accepted the invitation.  But before proceeding to Rampur he sent Mírzá Husayn with a servant to Rangoon by a cargo boat, and he also sent along with them all his luggage.
It was in Madras that Siyyid Mustafá the writer of this account, met Jamál Effendi the first time.  I was then quite a young man and was just preparing to return to my native country, Karbilá and Baghdád, after having settled my dues in consequence of a heavy loss sustained in the rice business.  Jamál Effendi's eloquent address, his silver voice and his flowery language frequently attracted large gatherings around him.  This humble servant was one of his ardent admirers.  I soon became so devotedly attached to him that I actually approached my father, Siyyid Muhammad, celebrated as Rúmí, for permission to accompany Jamál Effendi to Rampur.  My father, who was a very learned Muslim divine and held in great esteem and reverence by the Muslim public, did not approve of the proposal; and although he did not exactly know that the theme of Jamál Effendi's talk was the Bahá'í Revelation, yet he not only refused permission but even prohibited me from entering his house.  I was determined, however, to accompany Jamál Effendi to Rampur and succeeded in doing so.
(To be continued)


XXII:4, July 1931
page 112
Bahá'í pioneers
Part II
Siyyid Mustafa Roumie [Rúmí]
A short historical survey of the Bahá'í Movement in India, Burma, Java Islands, Siam, and Malay Peninsula.
In the first instalment of this spiritual autobiography, Mr Roumie told us of the work of the great teacher, Jamál Effendi, Persian apostle of the Bahá'í Cause who had proceeded to India by the command of Bahá'u'lláh.  How he spread the Bahá'í teachings there; the author's own meeting when a youth with this great teacher and his keen desire to accompany him on his missionary tour of India.  The second instalment follows.
At the time I succeeded in carrying out my desire to accompany Jamál Effendi on his missionary tour through India, he had with him two other Bahá'ís as his constant companions:  they were Rafiuddin Khán of Hassanpur, and Haji Ramadhan of Rampur.  After leaving Madras, our journey was broken for a couple of days at Gulburga where friends and officials from Hyderabad came to meet him.  After a short trip to Bombay we set out for Rampur.  On our way to the Kanpur Railway Station Jamál Effendi met the very brother of the Ruler of Rampur State for whose sake he had undertaken this long journey.  What happened was that the Rampur Chief, with the object of forming a closer acquaintance between Jamál Effendi and his brother, sent the latter to Kanpur to meet him and travel with him up to Rampur State.
Jamál Effendi on this occasion stayed about a month and a half at Rampur, in the mansion of the Chief's brother, and availed himself of this opportunity to hold several public and private discourses on the ideals and ethical teachings of the Bahá'í religion.  Within a few days the Chief's brother and those who were prompting him were silenced, their atheistic doctrines were thrown into the shade, and all their casuistry proved to have no real foundation.  In this way Jamál Effendi incurred the displeasure of one Násir Ahmad Hasan of Aligarh, a most zealous supporter of atheism, who wielded considerable influence over the Chief's brother and who, by some treacherous means, had cheated him out of more than thirty thousand rupees which resulted in much heated conversation and correspondence between the two.  The Chief's brother was indignant at the conduct of this old atheist friend and had imprisoned him.  From his prison he wrote to Jamál Effendi asking him to intercede for his release.  Jamál Effendi did so and he was duly released, eventually having to leave the State.  He swore vengeance against Jamál Effendi, although from him he had received nothing but kindness.
Jamál Effendi and I accompanied by a servant boy, left Rampur for Lucknow via Kashipur State and Moradabad.  At Lucknow he met the Rajas of Amethi and Balarampur States, who accorded him a very cordial reception.  Meanwhile the Raja of Kashipur also arrived and took him to meet and interview the Governor of United Provinces (India).
Page 113
The Rajas gave us a letter of introduction to the Maharaja of Benares, the sacred city of the Hindus.
Jamál Effendi then proceeded to Benares and for a fortnight remained the guest of the Maharaja at his palace.  During this short period he became acquainted with many leading citizens of Benares, Hindus as well as Muslims of all schools of thought.  One of his acquaintances was Áqá Muhammad Taqí Benarasi of Khurásán, at whose house he happened to meet Hájí Ahmad Bindani, an influential and wealthy citizen of Rangoon; and several leading Persian Muslims of Calcutta.
At the very first interview the conversation gradually turned on the question of time regarding the appearance of Imám Mahdí, the Qá'im and the Rij'at-i-Husayní according to Shí'ih creed.  A learned Shí'ih theologian who happened to be present in the assembly at the time, declared that no time had been specifically mentioned in regard to that, either in the Qur'án or in the sacred traditions of the revered Imáms.  Jamál Effendi then cited several passages from the Holy Qur'án and the traditions of Imám Ja'far-i-Sádiq which pointed to the year AH 1260 (corresponding to AD 1844)-as the time when one should look for the coming of the expected Mihdí who would be born like other human beings in accordance with the natural law of procreation.  He refused the theory of the sudden and phenomenal appearance of a youth of one thousand years of age from the strange and unknown region of "Jábulqá" and "Jábulsá".
Jamál further maintained that the Imám on his appearance would introduce a New Cause, a New Dispensation, a New Revealed Book, and a New Divine Law for the guidance of mankind.  He also quoted numerous passages from the sacred traditions to the effect that the Imám would be subjected to all kinds of persecutions humiliation and opposition, and eventually he and his followers would be martyred by men of his own race.  It was an exceedingly interesting discussion which went on for a couple of days, at the conclusion of which the learned divine protested that although there was a good deal of force in Jamál Effendi's argument, were they justified in accepting it since there was no appearance of the Anti-Christ or Sufyání.  Jamál Effendi then in his usual friendly manner said, "Let us jointly pray for the divine guidance and endeavour to grasp the true significance and right meaning of the Words of the Holy Book, which according to the saying of Imám Ja'far-i-Sádiq could be comprehended only by his chosen ones and faithful servants whose hearts are pure."
From Benares we proceeded to Calcutta, visiting Patna on the way.  We arrived at Patna at dusk and went directly to an Inn where we spent the night.  Early next morning, information was received that the police had surrounded the Inn the previous night and had been checking the arrival and departure of the guests.  Shortly thereafter some high European officials came directly to Jamál Effendi and informed him that the Chief Commis-
Page 114
sioner desired to see him, and that he should accompany them.  So we went with the officials to Danapur where the seat of government was at that time.  On arriving at Danapur, we were ordered to wait in a room under police surveillance and remained there for four hours without knowing the cause of this sudden arrest.  I suggested however that Násir Ahmad Hasan, the atheist, who was offended with Jamál Effendi at Rampur, must have had something to do with this little surprise.  My surmise proved to be quite correct for very soon a clerk came to Jamál Effendi with one of the letters which he had written to Násir Ahmed Hasan, and began to question him about it.  Finding that the reason of the arrest was some misunderstanding about this letter in the mind of the officials, I asked for permission to produce the letter of Násir Ahmad Hasan to which that one was a reply.  Upon receiving permission I promptly produced the letter in question, a reference to which at once cleared all doubts.  We were immediately set free and all our effects were returned to us.  Thus the attempt of an atheist to do mischief to the Cause was frustrated.
As this incident took place during the month of Muharram (Muslim New Year) the majority of the best citizens, like Nawab Muhammad, Nawab Welayat Ali Khán, and other illustrious persons, sympathetically, gathered together around Jamál Effendi and invited him to their homes, where he had opportunity to deliver the Bahá'í Message freely in those large meetings.
After a week or two we left for Calcutta.  On arriving there the party went to live in a house in Kolutollah which had been engaged for us by Nawab Safdar Ali Khán, the paternal uncle of the Rampur Chief.  Here, too, within a very short time the magnetic personality of Jamál Effendi and his exceedingly affable manners attracted many leading citizens of Calcutta and its neighbourhood.  He soon became a well known figure in the community, particularly among men of a religious and philosophic turn of mind.  Jamál Effendi however, was always eagerly seeking an opportunity to deliver the Great Message of universal love and peace, the message of the wonderful revelation of God's mystery, the message of the advent of the New Age.
At last the opportunity presented itself when he met Hájí Mírzá 'Abdu'l-Karím Shírází, a renowned Persian merchant of Calcutta, at whose residence leading Muslims used to meet every day to discuss current topics.  This was the time of the Russo-Turkish war of 1877, and so the main subjects discussed were the events of the war as they appeared in the newspaper reports.  In the course of these discussions, Jamál Effendi, as often as possible, directed the attention of his audience to various prophecies in the Holy Qur'án and the Tradition of the Prophet, regarding the signs of the appearance of the Promised Redeemer.
Page 115
His marvellous eloquence and his unique method of presenting the subject made a great impression on his audience.
About this time Jinábí Hájí Mírzá Muhammad 'Alí Afnán and his assistant Áqá Mírzá 'Abdu'l-Hamid arrived from Hong Kong, China.  They were enroute to Persia via Bombay.  Jinábí Afnán was one of the maternal uncles of His Holiness the Báb.  Both these gentlemen had business in China and came to see Hájí Mírzá 'Abdu'l-Karím in this connection, and were his guests.  They were known to Jamál Effendi, and they recognized each other at the meeting in Hájí Mírzá 'Abdu'l-Karím's house.  The unusual joy expressed by these friends on their sudden and unexpected meeting, the extraordinary warmth and affection manifested as they inquired about each other's welfare, astonished all who were present at the gathering.  The people then began to suspect that Jamál Effendi was a member of the new sect.
On the following day the visitors came to see Jamál Effendi, and after a long conversation about the war and much discussion of various passages of the Holy Tablet of Bahá'u'lláh (Súry-i-Ra'ís the Tablet of the Chief) relating to prophecies concerning Turkey, Jamál Effendi requested me to chant the Tablet for his two honoured guests.  As it was the first time that he had heard these supreme utterances-while I was chanting the Tablet he was conscious of a sudden flash of Heavenly Light and was quite overwhelmed with an inexpressible divine illumination.  He could not at the time fully realize the cause of the strange emotion that completely overpowered him.  After the chanting of the Holy Tablet was over, the revered guests and Jamál Effendi discussed between themselves the fulfilment of Bahá'u'lláh's prophecies, His teachings for the upliftment of mankind, His noble ideals raising the standard of morality, and the majesty of His mission, all of which I listened to attentively as if spellbound.  At the termination of the discussion, I confessed the truth of Bahá'u'lláh's claim and decided to dedicate my life to the service of the Divine Cause.  The three veterans at once embraced me, and kissed me most affectionately.  Jamál Effendi then in his supplication to the Sacred Threshold submitted my name, and a Holy Tablet was revealed in my behalf, the English translation of which is as follows:
"O Mustafa (the chosen one or selected as the best one).  The supplication of Jamál, who is soaring in the atmosphere of the love of his Lord, the Opulent and Exalted, was submitted in the Holy Presence, and thy name was mentioned therein.  We testify to thy truthfulness and sincerity, that thou mayst read it and be among the thankful ones.  Say, 'O God of the universe, who appeared with the Greatest Name!  I beseech Thee by the essence of the existence in the name of those who were not prevented by the hosts from turning towards Thy Face, and those whom the Kings could not prevent from beholding towards Thy Horizon, to write for me with Thy Supreme Pen that which behoveth Thy
Page 116
Generosity.  O possessor of the Names and the Creator of heaven!  O my Lord!  I hereby testify that which Thou hast already testified before the creation of heaven and earth, and I acknowledge that which Thy tongue has already declared before the manifestation of the Kingdoms of Thy Command and Creation.  Verily Thou art He, there is no God but Thee.  I supplicate Thee that thou mayst draw me in every condition near to Thy Horizon, and destine for me, O my God! that which is good in every world of Thy worlds.  Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Exalted, the High and the Great.'"
(To be continued)


XXII:5, August 1931
page 130
What is the oneness of humanity?
'Abdu'l-Bahá
The greatest prize this world holds is the consummation of the Oneness of Humanity.  All are the children of God.  God is the Creator, the Provider, the Protector of all.  He educates all of us, and is compassionate towards men.  His grace encompasses all mankind.  The sun of God shines upon all mankind.  The rain of God falls for all.  The gentle breeze of God wafts for all.  Humanity at large is sitting around the Divine Table of the Almighty.  Why should we engage in strife?  Why should we ever engage on the battlefield to kill each other?  God is kind, is He not?  Why should we be unkind?  What is the reason?  How are we benefited by being unkind?  Today the chief means of dissension amongst the nations is religion, while in reality the religion of God is one.  Differences lie in blind imitations which have crept into religion after its foundation.
Religion is Reality, and reality is one.  It does not permit of multiplicity.  His Holiness Abraham was the Herald of Reality.  His Holiness Moses was the Spreader of Reality.  His Holiness Jesus was the Founder of Reality.  His Holiness Muhammad was the Spreader and Promulgator of Reality.  The Reality of religion is one.  Fundamentally there is no difference.
The Reality of religion consists in the love of God, in the faith of God, in the virtue of humanity, and in the means of communication between the hearts of men.
The Reality of religion is the oneness of the whole of humanity.


XXII:7, October 1931
page 208
Bahá'í pioneers
Part III
Siyyid Mustafa Roumie [Rúmí]
A short historical survey of the Bahá'í Movement in India, Burma, Java Islands, Siam, and Malay Peninsula.
The missionary journeys of the author, Mr Roumie, with the great Bahá'í teacher Jamál Effendi throughout India, were successful in a general way.  Jamál, a cultured Persian scholar of refined, venerable appearance and eloquent discourse, found no difficulty in attaining access to leading people of various Indian States, including high government officials and rulers themselves.  During his stay of two years in India, he visited many important States.  Everywhere he received a warm reception and his message was listened to courteously.  In many cases men of influence became followers of the Bahá'í Faith, and in several places Bahá'í Assemblies were formed.  The work thus begun, by Jamál has continued in unbroken succession to the present day when India has reached the point of being second, perhaps, in importance to Persia itself in the number of Bahá'ís.
We left Calcutta May 1878 and reached Rangoon after a trip of seven days, steamers at that time being very slow.  Our arrival in Burma was rather unusual.  Though we had no acquaintances in this city, the news of our missionary journeys had been widely spread and because the difficulties in regard to our baggage and the police department had been noised abroad, all of the citizens of Rangoon knew of our arrival.  At the wharf were many people who had come to meet us, among them a young man, Hájí Siyyid Mihdí Shírází of Egypt.  We had written to him about our coming, requesting him to procure a suitable place for our residence.  This he attended to, and was at the wharf to meet us upon our arrival.
Here we found in this picturesque new country everything different:  new faces, new kinds of dress, new language, new manners, new food, new religion, and new forms of worship which were not known in India.  There were very few Persians then living in Rangoon, and most of them rich merchants; the other foreign peoples frequenting Rangoon were Chinese and Indians.  Our new friend, Hájí, assuming us to belong to the wealthy commercial class had secured a large building in the business quarter.  Later, because of defects in the roof, we moved to adjoining quarters in Mogul Street.  Here people of all nationalities, creeds and castes came daily to see us.  Jamál Effendi had the faculty of speaking to each soul in accordance with its own needs.  His wisdom as a teacher was extraordinary.  His audiences were always attracted and as a rule felt themselves blessed by his eloquent addresses.
The Chief Commissioner gave us a wonderful reception and listened with kind attention to our statements, promised to help us in every way possible, and gave us a letter of
Page 209
introduction to the then chief secretary, Mr J. E. Bridges.  The next day we went to interview this gentleman.  He received us courteously, was very kind to us, and after due inquiry into our affairs, directed us to see the Deputy Commissioner to whom he gave us a letter of introduction.
As a result of this mission of Jamál Effendi in Rangoon many wonderful souls accepted the Faith enthusiastically, and in a very short time the Cause was widely promulgated.  Then occurred a peculiar incident due to the unwise zeal of our Rangoon friend, Hájí Shírází.  Being a novice in the Cause and untrained in the best way of giving the Bahá'í Message, he took it upon himself, in a moment of great zeal, to go to the Shí'ih Mosque in the midst of the Friday worship; and there making a stand loudly called upon the congregation inviting them to come and see the Bahá'í teacher, Jamál Effendi.  "Don't pause or tarry for a moment," he said, "come immediately.  The appointed time foretold in the Holy Books has arrived.  The prophecies have been fulfilled.  The Promised Ones have duly appeared.  The glad-tidings of Their Manifestation is widely known in Persia and all over the world.  Thousands of people in Persia have accepted this Faith, and have sacrificed lives, family and wealth in this path.  Come immediately and hear Jamál Effendi in his wonderful way expound this Movement.  You will see with your own eyes the new heaven and the new earth, the new sun and the new moon, the new religion and the new faith ..." etc.
This unwise and ill-timed discourse created the greatest commotion and tumult among the fanatical Shí'ih congregation in the Mosque.  Outcries curses, abuse, scoffings-were raised from every side.  A terrible excitement reigned, in the midst of which Hájí fortunately escaped and slipped out of the Mosque, otherwise he would undoubtedly have received fatal injuries from the mob and perhaps have been killed then and there.
The Muslims called a meeting to deal with this "infidel", and a special priest named Áqá Siyyid Javád, a visitor to Rangoon, brought there to officiate especially at the Feast of Muharram, rose in the pulpit and openly denounced
Page 210
and abused and cursed our friend Hájí, mentioning him by name.  He roused the mob to fierce excitement, urging them to unite in force and violence and to eradicate the Bahá'ís from Burma.  He urged that our friend Hájí be expelled from the Shí'ih Mosque, excommunicated and killed on the spot lest the whole province be won over to this heretic faith.
This provocative sermon impressed only a few of the audience.  Fortunately the majority were of too much culture and intelligence to pay any attention to it.
Meanwhile we were all in the dark concerning this event Hájí-probably because he was ashamed, having given us no information concerning it.  It had been done entirely without consultation with us.
What he did do was to bring a charge of defamation of character against the priest who had delivered the violent sermon against him.  This charge, brought before the District Magistrate Court, after full investigation, was decided against the fanatical priest.  He was obliged to execute a bond for keeping the peace for six months.  Feeling disgraced by this, the priest left Burma by the next boat for Calcutta.
Soon Hájí came to us again bringing half a dozen of his relatives and friends to Jamál Effendi to hear the Bahá'í Message.  Hájí's father-in-law-a well known merchant-having died, his wife had inherited the property and rule of the family.  Since she did not sympathize with Hájí in his Bahá'í Faith, it was necessary for him to leave his kindred and become separated from the family.
The result of Hájí's mistaken zeal in the Mosque did not cause any violent hindrance to the work as was feared, but it was some time before the poisonous effect of the incriminating sermon of the priest had died away.  After all, some results did come from Hájí's public announcement of Jamál's mission as given in the Mosque, for some of the people who heard it were curious to investigate the truth of the matter.
One afternoon a young Persian gentleman of about thirty came up to see us, evidently by his appearance some one of high family.  But he was most rude and course in his manner to us, and we soon noticed that he was intoxicated.  Evidently he had been under the impression that we were people of low class.  As soon as he entered into the presence of Jamál Effendi and recognized his culture and station in life, he realized his mistake, became silent and remained only a little while, asking permission as he left to come and see Jamál Effendi the next day.
He came punctually as promised, a perfect gentleman now both in manner and dress.  We welcomed him warmly, and as Jamál Effendi discoursed to him with love and wisdom, gradually the young man's face shone as a result of the effect of the Divine Message with which he seemed to be delighted.  He remained seated for a long time in silence, a soul enchanted.  Then Jamál told him to come again the next day, for he should take time now to digest what he had heard this day.  It was enough of a lesson for the present.
Jamál Effendi learned upon inquiry about him that he was a descendant of the "Kad-khudá"
Page 211
family of Shíráz, Persia, and his name was Áqá Muhammad Kázim Shírází.  He had come to Rangoon to visit his uncle and cousins who had settled here many years before and were clothing merchants.
This youth now came every day to see us and soon was a confirmed Bahá'í.  Later he told us how he had come first to see us as a foe, and purposely had made himself intoxicated in order to inflict some fatal injury upon us.  But what a miracle, he said, that he had returned the next day and the next and the next, impelled by his attraction to the Cause.  This youth received many wonderful Tablets from Bahá'u'lláh.
In Rangoon we had many followers from the Sunní community and some from the Shí'ih community.1
In the Sunní community were Meolvi Abdul Subhan Koreishes, his five sons, his wife and his wife's sister and mother, as well as other relatives belonging to this family.  This composed the largest Bahá'í family in Rangoon.  They subsequently received many Tablets from Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Among the Shiite community also there were a large number who received Tablets from Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and from this community a group journeyed in 1899 to Haifa; they were the pilgrims who went with the sacred marble coffin, made in Mandalay for His Holiness the Báb, which was placed in the Tomb of the Báb on Mt. Carmel.
(To be continued)


XXII:7, October 1931
page 212
Auguste Forel-man of vision
Stanwood Cobb
I shall never forget my pilgrimage2 in 1922 to "La Fourmiliere" at Yvorne, Switzerland, home of the great scientist, philosopher and humanitarian, Dr Auguste Forel, recently deceased.  He was then in his seventy-fourth year and crippled by paralysis as a result of a previous stroke.  His enunciation was poor, it was difficult for him to formulate his thoughts rapidly in words, his hands were crippled and writing was extremely arduous for him.  Yet the thing which impressed me most in my day's visit and communion with him was the feeling of a great intellect and a great soul expressing itself through the crippled medium.  One could see plainly that the spirit of the man was undiminished, his intellect as powerful as ever.  It was only the channel through which that intellect could reach the world that was effected.  What an argument for the immortality of the soul His brain had become injured, his mind not at all.  His spirit, may we say, had become even greater as a result of his physical disability.
Dr Forel showed me with interest and indefatigable patience his works ranged about on the numerous shelves of his study, innumerable books on a wide range of subjects.  He had literary command of two languages, German and French, in each of which some of his publications had appeared.  In addition, copies of his works had been translated into almost every language of Europe.  All these he showed me with pride.
Besides his own publications, these book shelves which surrounded the room on every side from floor to ceiling, were piled thick with other publications which he used as research material, all divided into sections according to subject matter.  Here no housekeeping diligence was allowed to invade.  This room was sacred to Dr Forel and his literary work.  Everything must be left as he himself left it, so that he might know just where to put his hand on anything that he wished.  It was not as orderly as a modern office or library.  But it was evidence of the strange paradox that a creative mind which is most orderly in its power to organize intellectual material, may be in the organization of the material environment somewhat cluttery.  For the mental and physical energy is given in such cases to the organizing of ideas, and no time or energy is left for tidying up.
With the keenest interest Dr Forel showed my wife and myself five volumes on the life of the ant1 which has just been published in French.  This work has later been translated and published in this country.  He turned to the different parts of the book, and gave us a long discourse in elucidation of the text and of the illustrations, telling us how he came to make his discoveries.  At the age of twenty-one, he had published a book on the ant, the observations and discoveries of which he never had reason to modify.  By colouring with cobalt the food which he fed the ants, and
Page 213
by keeping food from all but one ant at a time, he made the discovery of the strange social stomach of the ant which is anterior to its own individual stomach.  Food is first turned into liquid form in this social stomach and from there regurgitated and shared in case of need with other hungry ants, only one-nineteenth being kept to go into the individual stomach.
He showed us an illustration of the valve which leads from the social stomach into the individual stomach.  I remember my attempt at that time to picture to myself in how far we must consider the workings of this valve to be automatic, and in how far we may consider this a voluntary ethical effort on the part of the ant.
__________
Dr Forel gave us many interesting incidents of his life.  He said that as a boy he was not very fond of studying.  He was poor at Latin and mathematics.  What he loved best was to linger on his way to and from school to study insect life by the roadside.  From the age of six years he observed the snails, the wasps and the ants.  At the age of eleven his grandmother, appreciating his fondness for insect life, gave him a rather costly book on the ant, highly prized by him ever since.  This book he said, was a great formative influence in his life; for it led him into making the study of this remarkable insect his major life work.
At the age of twenty-one, as stated above, he brought out his first work on the ant, which made him famous.  Others too have become world authorities on the ant, but Forel has the honour of having added more variety of ants to the knowledge of science than any other man, and of having formed the largest collection of ants in existence, which later he donated to the Natural History Museum of Geneva.
__________
Dr Forel had a many sided mind.  Both his interests and education covered many spheres of human thought and study.  He received the Doctorate of Medicine, also of Philosophy, and made distinguished contributions to the science of psychiatry, myrmecology1 and philosophy.  He published books which became well known on such subjects as hypnotism, alcoholism, psychiatry and the sex life.  "The
Page 214
Sexual Question", published late in life, has been widely circulated and has been translated and published in this country.
During his long life of scholarly achievement, Dr Forel published more than four hundred different works.  The mere enumeration of these filled a pamphlet of thirty pages which was published by his friends in Vienna in 1908 on the occasion of his sixtieth birthday.
__________
Dr Forel's medical and psychiatric work at the lunatic asylums of Munich and of Zurich (of the latter he became director) turned his attention to the fatal effects of alcoholism.  From then on it became one of the chief missions of his life to combat in every way possible this curse.  I recall with what fire and indignation he spoke to me of how besotted drunkards get, how filthy they make their homes, and how tragic their inebriation may become for their wives and children.  This poison which leads men to foul and evil deeds of which they would otherwise be incapable, seemed to him one of the greatest curses of humanity.  He was one of the first in Europe to found a temperance society.  When he bought the property at Yvorne he told me that he had the vineyards torn up to make place for vegetable and flower gardens.
"On the first of September 1928," says the Feuille D'Avis de Lausanne, "thousands upon thousands of the people of Europe wrote their recognition of the master of Yvorne as a compassionate physician, a courageous struggler against alcohol and all forms of vice, as a learned psychiatrist, a seeker who revealed the world of the ants, and a thinker who showed the people prophetic vision and the voice of a life free, peaceful, united and happy.  All of which he lived as he recommended."
Shortly after the world war, which was a tragic blow to his humanitarian belief in the ideals of world peace, he came in contact at Karlsruhe-(where he was visiting his daughter and son-in-law, Mrs and Dr Brauns)-with the teachings of the Bahá'í Cause.  The principles enumerated by Bahá'u'lláh for the New World Order, those lofty ideals for world peace and world brotherhood, so deeply impressed Dr Forel that he became himself a Bahá'í.
"I found Bahá'u'lláh had years ago declared the very principles which I had come to believe in, he told me, therefore I wished to be considered a follower of Bahá'u'lláh."
From that day on "the grand old man" of Switzerland devoted his life largely to the promulgation of these principles of Bahá'u'lláh.  "He served Bahá'u'lláh with immense capacity and indefatigable faithfulness up to the day of his passing," says of him Miss Martha Root, Bahá'í teacher and world traveller, who visited him a few years before his death, "He was truly a glorious and loving apostle of Bahá'u'lláh."
"Dr Auguste Forel," she declares, was one of the great Bahá'ís in Europe.  Wherever, in lecturing at the leading universities of Europe and the far East, I spoke of Dr Forel, his great achievements and his Bahá'í acceptance, the students listened with keen interest and acclaimed their approval with tremendous applause. And when I
Page 215
visited the chief cities of Switzerland to lecture about Bahá'u'lláh's universal principles or world peace, every city and every educator in Switzerland had heard of these teachings from their celebrated patriot and scientist, Dr Forel.
"I had the privilege of visiting Dr Forel in 1929," Miss Root further states, "and I consider him one of the greatest humanitarians I have ever met-one of the most just, most kindly, most intelligent.  He was a genius who saw the truth and the power of Bahá'u'lláh's teachings to usher in a New Era in divine civilization."
__________
It is of interest in connection with the later life of Dr Forel to know that one of the most important Tablets given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the world was addressed to this great scientist.  The Tablet dwelt chiefly on the proof of the existence of God and the immortality of the soul, Dr Forel having been, up to the time of becoming a Bahá'í, a positivist; he was an ardent humanitarian devoted to the advancement of humanity but not believing in the existence of God or the soul.  This remarkable exposition of on the scientific proofs of the existence of a Divine Creator and of the soul was accepted by Dr Forel.  It would be well if this Tablet could be studied in every university in the world, and by every scientist and religionist.


XXII:8, November 1931
page 249
What of the future?
'Abdu'l-Bahá
If the tent of the oneness of the world of humanity is not pitched on this earth and Universal Peace is not established, there will be more wars.  For this war has become a cause of hatred.  For instance, the Germans will not forget, the Austrians will not forget, the Bulgarians will not forget.  If the banner of Universal Peace is not raised, this question of war will be more acute.
On one side there will arise the tumult of the Socialists, from another the storm of Bolshevism, from another the problems of labour, from another the antagonism of nations, from another religious hatred, and from another racial prejudices.  It is clear what will happen.  All of these are like dynamite.  One day they will explode, unless the banner of Universal Peace is raised according to the divine teachings, and the oneness of the world of humanity proclaimed.
According to the divine teachings the banner of Universal Peace must be raised by the Power of the Word of God.  The oneness of the world of humanity must be established by the Power of the Holy Spirit.  No matter how the politicians strive, it will become worse.  The power of man is helpless. ...
This period is like the false dawn.  This peace is like the false dawn.  We will see what the future brings.  This has not taken place yet.
We cannot abolish war by war, for it is like cleansing blood with blood.  The divine teachings will accomplish it however.


XXII:8, November 1931
page 250
Bahá'í pioneers
Part IV
Siyyid Mustafa Roumie [Rúmí]
A short historical survey of the Bahá'í Movement in India, Burma, Java Islands, Siam, and Malay Peninsula.
Jamál Effendi, accompanied by the author, Mr Roumie, during two years of pioneer missionary work in India, found no difficulty in obtaining access to the leading people of many important Indian states including high government officials and rulers themselves.  Everywhere Jamál received a warm reception and his message was listened to courteously.  In many cases men of influence became followers of the Bahá'í Faith, and in several places Bahá'í Assemblies were formed.  The work thus begun by Jamál has continued unbroken succession to the present day when India has reached the point of being second, perhaps, in importance to Persia itself in the number of Bahá'ís.
In 1878 they left Calcutta for Rangoon.  Here their mission was highly successful, and in a short time the Bahá'í Cause was widely promulgated in spite of some instances of attempted persecution.
After the establishment of the Cause in Rangoon we left for Mandalay early in 1879 with several Persian companions.  As there was no railroad communication at that time, we had to go by a slow river steamer which ran once a week from Rangoon to Mandalay, capital of the then independent kingdom of Burma.
There were many obstacles to successful missionary work in Burma.  In the first place we did not know the Burmese language.  Secondly, we had no arrangements for our entertainment there or for contact with the natives, and had to shift for ourselves until we were fortunate in finding, as later described, a Persian from Calcutta who knew us and who gave us our first opening in the city.  Thirdly, under the rule of the despotic Burmese king, teaching of the Cause was extremely dangerous.  Promulgation of a new religion was, by Buddhist law, to be punished either by banishment, or execution by torture.
But did not a Tablet from His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh give us the Divine command to proceed to Mandalay and establish the kingdom there?  This, then, was our spiritual duty.  What difference did it make to the lives of obedient servants if they were killed or spared in the line of duty?  They considered nothing to be their own, all belonged to their Lord.
The trip to Mandalay was long and tedious, as the boat did not run at night, and it took us more than ten days to reach our destination.  We arrived at Mandalay about an hour before sunset, and had great difficulty in finding lodgings there.  At the advice of the chief of customs, who was a Muslim, we took shelter for the night at a Mosque called Joon Pull where we slept as well as we could in an open shed adjoining the Mosque.
Fortunately on the very next morning a Calcutta friend, previously referred to, Hájí 'Abdu'l-Karím upon hearing of our arrival, came to see us bringing with him a Burmese friend named Hájí 'Abdu'l-Azíz (in Burmese Ko Pooh) a dealer in precious stones.  This Burmese gentleman was well known and respected by the Moslem community of Burma.  We asked him if he could procure us a house,
Page 251
which he did-a residence in the Moslem quarter not far from the Mosque.
News of our arrival spread through the Moslem community of Mandalay, and men of all classes came now and then to see us asking many religious questions.  One gentleman who had already accepted the Cause in Rangoon, Áqá Muhammad Kázim Shírází, came rejoicing to see us, and became a regular and enthusiastic visitor thereafter.
Also our Calcutta friend Hájí 'Abdu'l-Karím came regularly to question Jamál Effendi upon spiritual problems connected with the Moslem law.  He joined us every day to take with us the Persian tea.
As far as possible in our missionary travels, we tried to mingle with all races, creeds and nationalities, but the people brought to us at this time were chiefly Muslims.  As it was in this circle that we mingled mostly, we felt it necessary to observe all due Muslim rites.  There was for instance the Fast of Ramadán and the Feast that follows it; all the obligatory prayers we also attended; but although we were associating constantly in this way with Muslim Burmese, we were unfortunately not able to converse with them in Burmese, and our Calcutta friend Hájí 'Abdu'l-Karím interpreted for us.
Thus our days went on until one evening as we were returning home, all of a sudden, stones were thrown at us from the darkness opposite our house.  We were seated at the time in front of the house in conversation with friends who had been waiting to see us.  Fortunately no  one was hurt, and the landlord came out, shouted loudly, and the stoning ceased.  The next morning our friend Hájí 'Abdu'l-Karím came to tell us that the people of the quarter disliked our presence there and it would be best to move somewhere else-they wanted to get rid of us.  We thought it best to comply with their desire and engaged a house with a compound at some distance from this one.  Here our friends continued to meet with us, occasionally bringing new seekers of truth.  These people Jamál Effendi welcomed and entertained in the most kindly way, conversing with them on spiritual subjects, and they would depart strong admirers of
Page 252
him and of the message which he had presented.
This quiet and unobtrusive method of teaching led to some important results.  One of our new friends, Abdul Wahid, who, like many other Muslim merchants in Burma, had taken the Burmese name, Ko Thin, carried the news of Jamál Effendi and his spiritual message to his uncle 'Abdu's-Sattár (in Burmese Koo) a very well known silk merchant, a man of great intelligence and influence in his circle.  Abdul Wahid related to his uncle all that he had heard and seen during his visits with Jamál.  The old gentleman, 'Abdu's-Sattár, an ardent seeker of truth, told his nephew to invite us both to dinner in his home-an invitation which we accepted with great pleasure.
They came to fetch us with a bullock chariot, then the chief vehicle in Burma, and after our evening prayers, we accompanied them to the home of 'Abdu's-Sattár where we found our host very eagerly awaiting us.  We observed that we were the only guests, and after the dinner and the usual exchange of politenesses, 'Abdu's-Sattár began to put all sorts of questions to Jamál relating to Súfí mysticism.  Jamál Effendi with great promptness and brilliancy answered all of his questions and solved all of his spiritual problems to his entire satisfaction.  We talked until the early morning hours and it was about two o'clock when we made our apologies and took our departure.  Later we heard that our aged host, through the sheer delight and pleasure he had in conversing with Jamál, was unable to sleep that night.
The very next day, to our great surprise, his nephew came with a bullock cart and a chariot to take us with all our belongings to a home which 'Abdu's-Sattár had assigned to us.  Upon arrival there we found the old gentleman busily at work, engaged in having constructed for us a meeting house on a vacant piece of land adjoining our home.  Soon this meeting house became a centre which attracted a sincerely devotional audience.  This was the real beginning of the Divine Cause of Bahá'u'lláh in Mandalay.  It is evident that the chief credit for the opportunity to spread the Cause in Burma must be given to 'Abdu's-Sattár and his nephew.  They were the first to become believers in Mandalay, noble souls, each of them, and they were the recipients of many Tablets from His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.
Gradually the number of believers increased from day to day until it reached the number of some two hundred or more.  These were busy and happy days.  Indeed we worked day and night, and I was also kept busy translating Tablets into the Urdu language, translating verses from the Qur'án and the Traditions regarding the time, place and person of the Divine Manifestation prophesied in these Holy Books.  This subject finally extended itself into a book of some three hundred pages, The Standard of Truth or Reality, which I wrote for 'Abdu's-Sattár.
We stayed in Mandalay for eighteen months.  When the time came to leave, Abdul Wahid was appointed as our representative.  Through him we were able to continue communication with the Mandalay
Page 253
friends.  In order to prepare him for this responsibility we had been teaching him daily the divine principles of Bahá'u'lláh.
How grateful we were to God that in a city where there was such danger in spreading the message of Bahá'u'lláh, we had been protected by the friendship and influence of our new Bahá'í brother, 'Abdu's-Sattár.  This was our salvation, for although the Persian Shí'ih community publicly denounced Jamál Effendi as a Bahá'í and incited the people to do us injury, yet so great was the influence of 'Abdu's-Sattár that no one was found who dared to come forward and oppose or obstruct the Movement.
Meanwhile our Persian friend, Áqá Muhammad Kázim Shírází, was working independently within the circle of the Persian Shí'ih community where he was able to guide many souls to the Truth, among them Áqá Siyyid Mihdí Shírází and Áqá Muhammad Sádiq, both of them partners of his in his Mandalay shop, and others some of whom had become natives of Mandalay.
In the course of time the prejudice of the Persian Shí'ih community became somewhat decreased.  Two well known merchants, Mírzá Muhammad 'Alí Isfahán and Áqá Muhammad Ibráhím Shírází, each invited us to dinner in their homes where we found gathered all the notable Persians of Mandalay.  Jamál Effendi took advantage of this wonderful opportunity to deliver a most convincing address on the expectation of the Qá'im and the Messiah.  The audience received this address in the most respectful silence except for a few polite questions.  It seemed these souls had been impressed, but due to their ignorance of Truth and to their intellectual pride they preferred to follow blindly their own dogmatic creeds.
The Priest of the Chinese Muslim Mosque, a learned sage, came to see us bringing with him a written question, a spiritual puzzle, which he wanted made clear.  This Jamál Effendi accomplished to his great satisfaction, pointing out how the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh had fulfilled all these prophecies.  The Chinese gentleman retired completely satisfied with his answers.
Thus having finished our duties for the present in Mandalay, feeling that much of importance had been accomplished and that the Supreme Cause of Bahá'u'lláh was well founded there, we returned to Rangoon by the same river steamer by which we had arrived.
(To be continued)


XXII:9, December 1931
page 258
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Why did Christ come into this world?  People think He came in order that they might believe in Him as the Word of God, or the Son of God.  "He came," they say, "to redeem us through His blood."
Christ was not seeking after fame.  He came that He might educate the world of humanity and illumine the world of reality.  He sacrificed His life for the realization of this fact.  This is reality.  Every fair and just man accepts this.  Now is it befitting that we lay aside the refining of character and engage in war, or abandon the second birth and occupy ourselves with enmity?  Christ came to release the people from the promptings of the lower nature, to make them angelic.  For this thing He accepted all calamities.


XXII:9, December 1931
page 272
Bahá'í pioneers
Part V
Siyyid Mustafa Roumie [Rúmí]
A short historical survey of the Bahá'í Movement in India, Burma, Java Islands, Siam, and Malay Peninsula.
Jamál Effendi, accompanied by the author, Mr Roumie, during two years of pioneer missionary work in India, found no difficulty in obtaining access to the leading people of many important Indian states including high government officials and rulers themselves.  Everywhere Jamál received a warm reception and his message was listened to courteously.
In 1878 they left Calcutta for Rangoon.  Here their mission was highly successful, and in a short time the Bahá'í Cause was widely promulgated in spite of some instances of attempted persecution.
After establishing the Cause in Rangoon the missionaries went, early in 1879, to Mandalay.  Here they met with some persecution.  Their teaching had to be quiet and unobtrusive.  Fortunately they were befriended by a wealthy merchant of great influence who built them a small hall in which to carry on their work, and put them under his personal protection.  Feeling that they had given a good foundation to the Cause in Mandalay, they now return to Rangoon.
Our safe arrival back at Rangoon delighted the hearts of the friends and uplifted their spirits.  We found awaiting us there many holy Tablets revealed by His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh for the friends in India and Burma as well as for ourselves.
As we planned to stay for a while in Burma, it was thought best to undertake some kind of business in order that, like the apostle Paul, we might earn our own living and pay our own way as we went about our missionary work.  It was finally decided to open a pony market, also have a line of hackney carriages, and a shop for the sale of provender.  This business in due time proved quite successful and profitable.
The Cause of Bahá'u'lláh, meanwhile, was gradually progressing; but although we had a goodly number of followers, they were, as a rule, of our own race, and we felt it very necessary that the Cause should reach out among the natives.  Otherwise the foundations of the Bahá'í Movement in Burma would not be strong enough to withstand the changes that time brings about among a foreign population who are constantly on the move, going here and there in search of business.  The result would be that unless the Cause was spread among the native population, it would gradually die away again.
By this time we counted among our followers only two native families in Rangoon:  that of Jinábí Áqá Hájí Siyyid Mihdí Shírází from amongst the Shí'ihs; and secondly that of Molvi Abdus Subhan Korishee.  Even these, however, were not actually natives of Burma, although they had become naturalized citizens:  the former family being from Persia, and the latter from India.
We did our very best to remedy this defect in the establishment of the Cause in Burma, and exerted our utmost to attract the natives to the Kingdom.  But our endeavours at this time were not effectual.  After the lapse of one year we took a second trip to Mandalay to see the friends, upon their invitation and continual requests, so that we could nourish them with new
Page 273
and higher teachings.  A member of the Shí'ih Persian community of Mandalay who was very hostile to the Bahá'í Movement engineered a piece of chicanery which proved quite fatal to our work at Mandalay at this time.
He instigated a professional cook, who had been with us at Hyderabad while we were sojourning in that city, to start, falsely, a civil suit against us for one hundred and seventy six thousand five hundred and nine rubies, stating that he had sold goods to us in Hyderabad for which he had not been paid.
The courts in Mandalay, we were informed, were entirely lawless and unjust at this time and well known for their bribe taking.  Many bona fide claims had been dismissed by them as false, and many false claims had been decided in the affirmative.  Many defendants, and some of the plaintiffs even, had been sent to jail and violently tortured preliminary to the first court hearing.
Fortunately some of our influential Bahá'í friends managed to secure all of the details of this claim and a copy of the complaint from the Court.  We also had an interview with the Prime Minister Kewun Mingyi through the kind intervention of our Bahá'í friend Mullá Ismá'íl, the Chief Commissioner of Customs.  After listening to our story, he promised to give us justice upon the following day when the case was called.  He was as good as his word, and the case against us was dismissed on the ground that it was not a case for the judiciary of the Burmese Court, but should be presented at the Court where the business transaction had taken place.  The Judge stated in his judicial opinion that the case seemed to be nothing but a piece of religious antagonism and hatred toward the revered personage of the defence.
Although thereafter we found ourselves free from this danger, the Bahá'ís of Mandalay had no peace of mind even after the decision of the case in our favour, for they well knew the lawlessness of their courts.  Anybody might bring an action, civil or criminal, against any person without much trouble or expense.  Therefore it was deemed too risky for us to stay longer in this city, and after a few months we departed for Rangoon although it was a great disappointment to our friends.  This was the decision of the Mandalay believers, although it was a bitter disappointment and sorrow to them.
We came back to Rangoon distressed and heartbroken over the results of our trip to Mandalay, but we could not sit down and lament in idleness.  We had to earn our living.  So the writer was sent with some ponies and some jewellery to Calcutta, from which trip he returned with great profits.  He was then sent on another trip of the same kind with livestock and gems to Penang in the Malay Peninsula.  This was an entirely new part of the world to him, but I managed to find lodgings, upon my arrival, in the house of a well known leader of mysticism, Omar Khalidi, a man of Malay descent.  He was about sixty years of age with half a dozen grown up sons and daughters, most of whom were able to speak in Arabic.  Thus I was able to con-
Page 274
verse with them and got along very well.  Because this island was quite small, I became within a week a conspicuous figure everywhere, and although I had not yet found educated and interesting souls, yet I continued to deliver the message of Bahá'u'lláh to all receptive and intelligent people.  Finally after disposing of all my ponies and gems favourably, I returned safely to Rangoon.
After a couple of months I was sent on a similar errand to Calcutta.  Now it was decided that Jamál Effendi and the writer should go on a long trip through India, and if possible around the Malay peninsula and to the Java Islands.  The friends in Rangoon unanimously agreed to this proposition.  Therefore leaving our business in charge of some of the friends, we took the first boat to Calcutta.  Here we found that most of the Bahá'í friends had either moved or died, therefore we did not stay long here, but left for Dacca, an important city of Bengal.  Here we met with some interesting and important people.  From there we went to Bombay where we stayed about three weeks.  Bombay at this time was an important centre of the Bahá'í Movement in India.
We next went to Madras where the Cause had a large number of followers, about four hundred in all.  The number of believers was considerably increased after our arrival in Madras, and the writer was kept busy delivering public lectures every night in various parts of the town.  He was delighted to be again with his aged Father, Siyyid Muhammad Roumie, then in his one hundred and fourteenth year.1
During our stay in Madras many eminent persons joined the Bahá'í religion, among them:  Nawab Ferooz Hussein Khán, Nawab Muhammad Miyan, Siyyid Kázim Ali, Oman Khán Subadar, Major Bahadur, Siyyid Dawood, and one mullá, Muhammad Ali Rampuree, a very learned sage, also his nephew, Murád 'Alí, a merchant.
Our next stop was Singapore, where we were the guests of the Turkish Vice Consul, a well known Arab merchant.  From here we sailed for Batavia, the chief seaport of Java.  We had great difficulty in getting a passport for travelling in Java, but finally secured one from the British passport office.  This allowed us, however, to travel only in seaport towns and for only six months.
During all our travels in Java, we were closely watched by detectives and spied upon everywhere, as the Dutch government was exceedingly afraid of religious propaganda in Java.  We were also hampered here by lack of facility in the Javanese language, which Jamál Effendi did not understand.
From Batavia we went to Surabaya where we sojourned for a couple of months, leaving there finally for the island of Bali.  The inhabitants of this island had originally been Hindus and Buddhists, but their religion now had become somewhat corrupted; the king of this province could hardly be said to practice any religion except perhaps a corrupted form of Buddhism.  His queen had
Page 275
been a Muslim by birth.  This queen was keenly desirous of seeing Jamál Effendi.  She sent some high officials to fetch us to the palace, bringing two beautiful ponies for us to ride on as there was not any kind of a vehicle.  Accompanied by the palace escort, and by our friend the Chief Commissioner of Customs who served as interpreter for us, we reached the palace and were cordially welcomed.  For hours the king and queen questioned us earnestly about spiritual subjects.  It was a most interesting conversation.  Finally, after partaking of coffee and some sweets, we received permission to retire.
After a couple of days, we sailed for the Sulawesi (Celebes) islands, the chief seaport of which is Makasar, now the seat of the Dutch Governor.  We landed here safely and the police instructed the porters to take us with our luggage to the Arab quarters, where we were to be put under the guardianship of the Chief of this quarter.2
We were greeted cordially by this Arab Chief, who had been born and brought up here.  A very large brick building with an iron gate was given us to live in, of which we occupied only two rooms on the top floor, one for Jamál Effendi, and one for our luggage, occupied by the writer.
As experienced travellers, it occurred to us to inspect carefully the whole building.  We closed the doors of all vacant rooms, especially we took particular pains to close the huge gate opening on the public road.  The wisdom of this precaution will soon be seen.  The building, owned by a rich Chinese merchant, seemed to have been abandoned for many years.  It took hours to lock the gate with the utmost difficulty.  Meanwhile news of our arrival and of the location of our lodgings was being spread over the whole town.
In the morning, to our amazement, when we looked out we saw a throng of citizens outside the building.  They asked us with great astonishment how it was that our lives had been spared that night.  Had no ghost, demon, or evil spirit disturbed us?  How was it that we had been safe from harm?  Had we overcome the Monstrous Devil?  It had always been the case previously that those who spent the night in this great edifice, were found dead in the morning, and from no known cause.  So terrible had been the reputation of this residence that the surviving heirs of the Chinese owner of the building dared not live in it.
We told them that we had driven out the evil spirits, ghosts, demons and devils from the house and made it habitable, thus wiping out the superstitious ideas that the Chinese and natives had had about this house for years.
Knowing that the Chinese have many superstitions and a great fear of demons, we concluded that, owing to some deaths in this household, they had abandoned the place because of the belief that it was haunted.  But to our amazement we subsequently learned that their fears were by no means groundless.  The Chief of this Arab quarter who
Page 276
was in charge of the residence, had been in the habit, it seems, of bestowing it as a shelter upon inexperienced and unknown fellow countrymen travelling to that city, if he considered them to be rich.  They would retire for the night assured of the careful protection of this Arab Chief and would go to sleep without taking any precaution.  Once they were sound asleep, some of the Chief's men would creep in, dressed up to resemble demons, and choke the sleeping men until they were dead.  The next morning they would be buried by the Chief and their belongings would be taken away by the said Chief for safe custody!
But in our case the evil designs of the Chief were thwarted by our precaution.  His men did come to the big gate, it seems, and tried hard to force it open.  Jamál had been awakened by the noise and shouted loudly in Arabic, "Who is there?" and looking out he saw men running away from the gate.
In spite of this knowledge which we had acquired of the evil designs of our native Chief, we dared not disclose to him our awareness of his villainy for we needed his help in all of our movements.  So instead of confronting him with his crimes, we deemed it best to present him with a gem worth twenty dollars and thanked him for his kind protection.
(To be continued)


XXII:10, January 1932
page 313
Bahá'í pioneers
Part VI
Siyyid Mustafa Roumie [Rúmí]
A short historical survey of the Bahá'í Movement in India, Burma, Java Islands, Siam, and Malay Peninsula.
Jamál Effendi, accompanied by the author, Mr Roumie, during two years of pioneer missionary work in India, found no difficulty in obtaining access to the leading people of many important Indian states including high government officials and rulers themselves.  Everywhere Jamál received a warm reception and his message was listened to courteously.
In 1878 they left Calcutta for Rangoon.  Here their mission was highly successful, and in a short time the Bahá'í Cause was widely promulgated in spite of some instances of attempted persecution.
After establishing the Cause in Rangoon the missionaries went, early in 1879, to Mandalay where they laid a good foundation for the Bahá'í Cause.
Several years were spent in missionary journeys to Burma Mandalay and the chief cities of India.  Then Jamál Effendi and the author left for more distant journeys to Singapore, Java and the Sulawesi (Celebes) Islands where they met with extraordinary adventures.
During our stay in Makasar we became well known as experts in the healing of the sick and the soothing of nervous ailments.  With the supreme power and help of the Greatest Name we were able to heal many of the sick, and those who thought themselves possessed by evil spirits were also relieved by our prayers.  Through this healing work we were able to deliver the message of Bahá'u'lláh to every one with whom we came in contact; and when the time arrived for us to depart, it was only with the greatest difficulty that we were able to tear ourselves away from these people who had begun to depend so much upon us.
From Makasar we proceeded in a small sailing vessel to a seaport of the Sulawesi islands called Pari Pari, then ruled by a native independent chief called Fatta Aronmatua Aron Raffan, which means "The Great Monarch and King of all Kings".  On our arrival I went directly to the customs official to ask permission for landing.  The officer in charge gave me a pony on which to ride to the royal palace-a palace built of bamboo-to obtain this permission from their King.  The King, who was advanced in age, was eagerly awaiting our arrival and watching with a telescope through the window of his palace.  As soon as I entered the royal palace the King got up from his seat and warmly embraced me saying that he was happy to see his honourable guest.  Then he eagerly inquired the whereabouts of Jamál Effendi, who, I replied, was still in the ship awaiting for his royal command to disembark.
When I entered the royal presence I saw there two envoys sent to the King by the Dutch Governor of Makasar with a private letter to the King indicating the arrival of the two visitors-Jamál Effendi and the writer-and requesting the King to refuse any help that they might request for the purpose of making their journey into the interior of the native states; for the letter stated these two men were necromancers, and would use the art of enchantment to win the chiefs and their subjects for their mystic religious rites.
The King was not favourably impressed with this defamatory letter.
Page 314
In fact he was noticeably annoyed by it and in an angry tone he said to the two envoys, "These venerable visitors are our guests and under our protection, and the Dutch Governor should not interfere with our religious affairs.  This is my reply to his offensive letter, and an unofficial message which should be conveyed by you to him."  The envoys, thunderstruck, immediately retired disheartened and unsuccessful in their hostile mission.
The King enjoined upon the customs official to apologize to Jamál Effendi on his behalf for not being able to do him the honour of a public reception, and directed the customs official to accommodate the guests in his own house.  This was done, and we were honourably received by this official.  The day after our arrival we were summoned to the Court to have an audience with the King.  We were warmly received by him.  He embraced each of us and bade us be seated close beside him.  After the usual salutations and politeness he inquired about our voyage and the object of our unexpected and delightful arrival at such an unfrequented spot.
With perfect sincerity and candour, yet with tact and sympathy, we explained to him our whole missionary adventure in a way calculated to produce interest and satisfaction on his part.  The King was exceedingly delighted and asked us to call again on the next morning.  So on the morrow we were again furnished with ponies and rode a distance of about two miles to the palace, and this time had audience with the Queen and also with the princes.  In fact we found ourselves becoming very intimate with the King and all the royal family.
The King was suffering with an ugly disease called psoriasis.  His whole body was covered with scales like fish scales which caused constant irritation and itching.  His skin was so sensitive that he could stand but little clothing and so he wore but very few garments.  Jamál Effendi had inspired such faith and admiration in the King as to make him confident that his spiritual visitor could heal his painful disease, and he requested this of Jamál.  The latter replied, "We are not qualified physicians or trained in the healing of material ills.  But we will earnestly pray for divine guidance, and by means of that try to find the remedy for you."
When we returned home we consulted and prayed together for the solution of this problem and responsibility which the King's sickness and his faith in us had placed upon us.  The results were, as the reader will see, a remarkable confirmation of the fact that no matter what the difficulty, Bahá'ís will find a heavenly guidance through consultation and prayer.
Having sought the guidance, then, we immediately proceeded to act.  We went out to the neighbouring jungle to search for medical herbs, as we had nothing of this nature with us.  We found many trees of cassia fistula with its abundant fruits which are mildly laxative.  We collected some of these fruits; and going further into the jungle found some plants of jungle mint and gathered the leaves of this also.  We sought to be guided in the collection of other plants and herbs, continually using the Greatest Name while we were engaged in this extraordinary search.  We brought them home, and praying also the
Page 315
while, prepared from them a brew, and also a purgative from the cassia.  We had a few cakes of carbolic soap with us fortunately, and we prepared three bottles of oxymel combined with vinegar and sugar, and took all of these preparations and the soap with us to the royal palace the next day.  We gave four doses of the purgative to the King on alternate days, and gave him nourishment in between times.  Every day he had a hot bath with a strong application of carbolic soap, taking internally some of the herb brew we had made and the oxymel.
As the natives were unable to carry out any of these services, even the bath, the writer personally executed everything necessary.  It took more than a month to soften the skin and gradually bring it to a smooth and velvety condition as before this sickness.  Finally through divine confirmations and the glorious powerful effects of the Greatest Name, we succeeded to a certain extent in affecting a cure.  After all, the faith of the old King was certainly a great factor in his remarkable recovery.  Needless to say, the royal family were greatly impressed because of this healing, and were won to our friendship and to attachment to our Message more than ever before.
(To be continued)


XXII:11, February 1932
page 322
'Abdu'l-Bahá
War is a grievous calamity.  It begins and ends in disaster. ...  What is this land, this earth?  Is it not this: that for a few years we live on this earth, then it becomes our grave, our cemetery?  Eternally shall we be beneath it.  Now is it beneficial or kind to engage in war and strife for an eternal cemetery?  Many generations have come and have lived for a short time on this earth and are buried under it.  It is the universal graveyard of humanity.  Is it praiseworthy that we engage in warfare, shedding blood, destroying homes, pillaging the wealth of nations and killing little children ...?  Is it worthy that we sacrifice eternal life and the everlasting soul of man for the sake of a little dust?
There is no doubt that God is displeased with this.  There is no doubt that the perfect man will not approve.  Justice and equity will not permit it.


XXII:11, February 1932
page 342
Bahá'í pioneers
Part VII
Siyyid Mustafa Roumie [Rúmí]
A short historical survey of the Bahá'í Movement in India, Burma, Java Islands, Siam, and Malay Peninsula.
Jamál Effendi, accompanied by the author, Mr Roumie, during two years of pioneer missionary work in India, found no difficulty in obtaining access to the leading people of many important Indian states including high government officials and rulers themselves.  Everywhere Jamál received a warm reception and his message was listened to courteously.
In 1878 they went to Rangoon, where their mission was highly successful.  In 1879 they started on an extensive missionary tour of Burma, Mandalay and the chief cities of India.  They then undertook a still more distant journey to Singapore, Java and the Sulawesi (Celebes) Islands where with the primitive people they met with extraordinary adventures and success.
After several minor trips we reached the province of Padalia, ruled by Fatta Chikourdi.  When our boat, after a rather alarming trip through a crocodile infested river, reached the town in which the King resided, his officers met us at the landing and took us to a commodious guest house on the river side.  They then presented to us the formal greetings of the King and took in return our greetings to His Majesty.  The next day we were summoned to the palace.  King Fatta Chikourdi, of Padali and his Queen Diammarala welcomed us warmly and invited us to visit them and have audience with them daily.  In our judgement, however, this place was utterly devoid of spiritual souls.  The people were not at all interested in our mission, nor did they have capacity, it would seem, for receiving our declaration of the divine dispensation.  So we made up our mind to move further on to the province of Boonay as soon as the King should deign to provide us with canoes and other requisites for our trip.  We could not of course ask for this immediately as it would be rude to make too short a visit.
As we were waiting an opportunity to tactfully talk of our departure, to our surprise a serious epidemic of smallpox broke out in the principle towns of Padalia.  The houses around the palace had many victims, especially among children, and the loss of life was very great.  The King felt uneasy about this and
Page 343
asked us to do something to arrest the ravages of the plague.  We had no instruments or medical material to handle such a situation.  We found ourselves forced, however, to take some steps to oblige the King.  I was instructed by Jamál Effendi to procure some ordinary needles, tie them up tight and put them in a small vial together with some ripe scabs from long affected children, adding to this the milk of some woman who was giving suck to a male child.  With this I was to vaccinate the children of the province.  I carried out the instructions to the letter and later I vaccinated daily upwards of five hundred children.  Of these only one per cent died; all the rest were saved by this treatment.
Through this medical work we found opportunity to deliver the Message to all.  We were not able to stay long enough however, to prove the results of this missionary activity, for we soon left for the province of Boonay.  The King generously supplied us with all the necessary travelling equipment and three long canoes with full escort.  He affectionately bade us adieu, and we started down the crocodile infested river once more.  Before sunset we reached our destination and were warmly received by the King and his officials and given the guest house opposite the palace for our residence.  After dinner we were invited to the audience chamber where we were received enthusiastically by the King and Queen.  In this very first interview we became intimately acquainted with each other, and the King as simply as a child put all sorts of questions to us, both material and spiritual.
With our party, as it happened, was an Arab from the province of Yemen.  He happened to journey with us down the river.  The King undertook to recite a prayer known in Islám mystical denominations as Jeljelutich.  This Arab suddenly interrupted and impertinently attempted to correct the pronunciation of an Arab word in the prayer which the King had, in reality, pronounced correctly.  The King, very much annoyed, told him that he was mistaken as to the proper pronunciation but the Arab, who was quite impolite and rude and even insane in his obstinacy, continued to contradict the King.  So irate did the King become that he ordered the Arab put out of the palace, and gave instructions that he should never be admitted again.  He then turned to us and asked us if we had brought this monster in our company.  We explained the facts as to how he happened to be with us, and the King became appeased.
The King was so attracted by the stirring talks of Jamál Effendi that he kept him answering religious questions until the late hours of the night; in fact, it was not until two o'clock in the morning that we were permitted to retire.
Every day and evening we were now in the audience chamber holding religious conferences with the King, continuing to solve his spiritual problems.  After a few days the King asked us to write a handbook in Arabic outlining principles for the administration of his State, as well as a booklet for teaching Arabic colloquial conversation.  This gave us an unusual opportunity to present the principles of Bahá'í administration and government to the
Page 344
King, for we based our handbook upon the universal laws of Bahá'u'lláh.
Meanwhile the Arab, really partially insane it would seem, deprived of the privilege of entering the palace turned his grudge upon the writer.  It took a good deal of precaution on my part to avoid trouble, but one day as I was working on the manuscript of the handbook above mentioned, the Arab, sitting upon his bed, started to vehemently shake the bamboo floor of the house in such a way as to prevent my writing.  Upon my polite request to him to desist, he suddenly appeared quite naked from behind the curtain of his bed and struck me upon the head with a heavy block of wood.  Fortunately the Queen, happening to look out from her palace window, saw this attack and informed the King who with a large corps of his followers rushed in and arrested the Arab.  He also had my wound treated and dressed.  Then he gave orders to have the Arab executed.  As Bahá'ís, Jamál Effendi and myself both begged the King to forgive the criminal; and after a long entreaty upon my part, it was granted and the order was given that he should not be executed but banished with a criminal record to the Dutch settlement.  The King and Queen, great admirers of Jamál Effendi and the writer, kindly permitted us to present to the insane man some gifts for his journey, about ten dollars in cash and five dollars worth of native cloth.
The books were finally completed and presented to the King and Queen respectively.  Also we gave the King lessons in the translation of his books into the Malay language which were exceedingly appreciated.
The King and Queen accepted the Bahá'í Cause and made a vow to promulgate it in all the provinces of the Sulawesi (Celebes) Islands as soon as they should receive confirmation for this missionary effort.
Thus having raised the standard of Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá, we made our preparations to return.  With great sorrow at our departure, the King and Queen had all necessary preparations made for our voyage.  The atmosphere was very melancholy when we went to bid adieu to their Royal Highnesses.
(To be continued)


XXII:12, March 1932
page 375
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Soon it will be the time of Spring.  Already the signs of the flowers may be seen upon the mountains and in the valleys.
(Ten Days in the Light of 'Akká, p. 57.)
[The remainder of the paragraph and a subsequent one are to be found in Star of the West XIX:12, p. 358 (included above).  The quotation is also to be found in Star of the West, XV:12, March 1925, p. 345.-M.W.T.]


XXIII:3, June 1932
page 71
White roses of Persia
Part I
Martha L. Root
Here is told one of the most moving stories, tragic yet noble, among the many martyrdoms of the Bahá'ís in Persia the story of Varqá.  The material for this article was gathered by the author on her recent visit to Persia.  This is the first of three instalments.
Tihrán, Persia, has so many faithful Bahá'í families that to go among them makes one think:  "O Persia, your famous attar comes not alone from your roses, the perfume which diffuses itself through the lives of your believers is a fragrance still not equalled in other countries."  If there is a more sweet or tender story of devotion to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the great Bahá'í Cause than the lives of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá and his little son Rúhu'lláh Varqá of Persia, I have not heard it.  When I was visiting in Tihrán I used to meet 'Azízu'lláh Varqá and his younger brother Valíyu'lláh Varqá, sons of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá, and often I used to ask them about their father and brother.  All this narrative is absolutely true and in it the reader will see how God prepares souls to come into this world.
'Alí Muhammad Varqá was an ardent Bahá'í of Tabríz, Persia, in the days when Bahá'u'lláh was a Prisoner in 'Akká, Palestine from 1868 until His passing in 1892.  He was exiled and imprisoned because His Teachings which are now being studied by some rulers, many statesmen and millions of other people, were, like those of other World Teachers, very far ahead of His time.  To begin at the beginning, 'Alí Muhammad Varqá had one son, 'Azízu'lláh, two years old, when one day in April another little son was born in his home, and he and his wife named the child Rúhu'lláh which means "the Spirit of God".
__________
There was glad rejoicing when Bahá'u'lláh from 'Akká sent these parents a Tablet (a letter) about this new babe and in it the reader with insight will discern the introduction to this thrilling story which follows.  Bahá'u'lláh wrote:
"O Varqá!  It is for thee to chant in both ears of this little one three times:
"Verily, thou hast come by the Command of God!  Thou hast appeared to speak of Him, and thou hast been created to serve Him Who is the Dear, the Beloved!"
"We mentioned this before when his mother implored us, and now We are mentioning it again.  We are the Generous and the Giver!"  (His mother sent no petition by letter, but it was perhaps when this little one was coming into this world that she cried out to Bahá'u'lláh.)
While Rúhu'lláh was still a little child, Bahá'u'lláh sent a second Tablet.  It read:
"He is the Hearer and the Seer!"Blessed art thou, for thou hast witness the grandeur and greatness of God while still a child.  Blessed is the mother who nursed thee and has arisen to do what is becoming of her!  We beg God to write for thee from His Supreme Pen that which is fitting to His Generosity, Bounty and Favour.  Verily, He is the Generous and the Bountiful!  Praise be to God, the Lord the Worlds!"
Another Tablet to Rúhu'lláh from Bahá'u'lláh was:
"O thou Rúhu'lláh!  Verily, the Greatest Spirit has inclined towards thee from the
Page 72
Prison and is mentioning thee with such a station that its fragrance will continue as long as My Kingdom and My Grandeur endure!
"Thou, when thou bindeth and knoweth (the mention) say:  'Praise be to Thee, O Ocean of Bounty!  Thanks be to Thee that Thou hast made me to appear and in my first days speak Thy mention and Thy praise.  Verily, Thou art the Forgiving and the Compassionate!'"
Later, another little son came to bless their home and he was called Valíyu'lláh.
__________
"What kind of a Bahá'í father was 'Alí Muhammad Varqá?" you may ask, and "How did he train his sons spiritually?"  All fathers who read this tale will see in the life of this Persian the highest ideal of fatherhood, a height not reached in every home, and too high to be understood by many fathers.  He, himself was a Bahá'í teacher.  The picture of the Báb is preserved to the world today because 'Alí Muhammad Varqá led a great painter to become a believer.  The narrative of the Yazdí family so distinguished in Egypt for their Bahá'í services is another fruit of the many souls to whom he first brought the Teaching in Persia.  He was never outside his country except to go to Palestine, yet his pupils have served with glory in the Near East and in Europe.
Being a wise young father, recognizing in what highest education really consists, he took his two little sons, 'Azízu'lláh and Rúhu'lláh (little Valíyu'lláh at that time was too young to go, he was only a babe in arms) for a pilgrimage to Bahá'u'lláh in 'Akká.  Other parents could with profit follow this same plan and today take their children to meet Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause in Haifa, Palestine.  If children can glimpse the highest ideals while they are still very young, these ideals may be their lofty inspiration throughout life.  Certainly this story shows how one little boy developed into a teacher, a poet, a great philosopher and a world hero before he had hardly crossed the threshold of his twelfth year.  Educators must see in the life of this son an astounding Power in the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh!
__________
Many were the incidents of that historic visit to Bahá'u'lláh but I only tell you a few of them.  'Azízu'lláh Varqá told me that when the maternal grandfather, the father and Rúhu'lláh arrived in 'Akká, they went to the room of the secretary of Bahá'u'lláh.  It was furnished with a mat and they sat down on this, for they had been told that Bahá'u'lláh would come to this room to meet them.  In the distance there were steps leading to an upper room and the father told 'Azízu'lláh to go and stay near those steps to watch the approach of the Blessed Beauty and then to inform them.  The child went but when he looked and saw Bahá'u'lláh at the head of the stairs he mounted several steps and knelt at the feet of His Lord.  He was crying so hard his very bones were shaking.  Bahá'u'lláh stopped and made him [be] happy and they came down the stairway together, the little boy just behind Bahá'u'lláh.  It was a great meeting, but when the visitation was over, the father said to his little son:  "Why did you not do what I asked you to do?  Why did you not run and tell us?"  'Azízu'lláh replied:  "I do not know.  I do
Page 73
not know how I mounted those steps, I was not conscious that I went up the stairs."  We know how moved Professor Edward G. Browne of Cambridge University, England, was, when he first met Bahá'u'lláh but here is an account of what it meant to a very young Persian boy.
The next day they were all invited, the grandfather, father, and two small sons to visit Bahá'u'lláh in His own room.  Then when the visit was over, the two boys were invited to the room of Bahá'u'lláh's daughter, Bábíyyih, known throughout the world as the Greatest Holy Leaf.  She was then perhaps about forty-five years old.  She said to her little guests:  "What are you doing in Persia?" and Rúhu'lláh replied:  "We are teaching the Bahá'í Cause in Persia"  "What do you say in speaking to people she queried, and Rúhu'lláh answered:  "I tell them God has appeared again on this earth."  The Greatest Holy Leaf smiled but said:  "When you are speaking you must not say this openly."  The child replied:  "I do not say it to everybody, I know to whom I must say it."  "How do you know the people to whom to speak?" she continued, and he said:  "I know people from their eyes; when I see their eyes I know."  In fun, Bahá'u'lláh's great daughter said:  "Rúhu'lláh look into my eyes and see if you could speak to me?"  Naively he searched her eyes and told her:  "No, I cannot speak to you, because you know everything."
Two young men sitting and doing their writing lessons in the other part of the room began to laugh over the conversation and the Greatest Holy Leaf said:  "Look into their eyes and see whether you could speak with them and convince them."  The child looked at them long and carefully, and then answered:  "It is very difficult and it is of no use to try to convince them."  (These two young men were Díyá'u'lláh1 and Badí'u'lláh who afterwards turned against the Cause.  When this conversation was told to Bahá'u'lláh He said:  "Rúhu'lláh is a Bahá'í teacher."
__________
The little group stayed for several months in 'Akká and in Bahjí.  Rúhu'lláh studied Persian writing every day and every Friday he used to show a copy of his writing to 'Abdu'l-Bahá Who often praised it.  Rúhu'lláh's father was very insistent about their lessons and very severe when they did not study, for he knew the importance of education.
'Azízu'lláh recounted another incident of the visit saying that when Bahá'u'lláh wished to reveal (dictate) a Tablet, he used to dismiss everybody with great haste.  He, 'Azízu'lláh, said:
"One day I was in Bahá'u'lláh's Presence with the whole family and He called for the secretary to bring ink and paper quickly and in the same moment He requested us all to go.  I was just a child, but seeing this haste to send every one away, I had a great longing to be present sometime when a Tablet is revealed.  I had asked from one of the members of His family to ask Bahá'u'lláh if I could come, please, to see a Tablet revealed.  A few weeks later in the Garden at Bahjí, when I was playing with some children, the door of the home was opened and one member of the family called me and said that Bahá'u'lláh wished to see me.  I ran to His room and entering I saw that He was chanting revealed Tablets and poems.  So entering His room that day, I thought everything was the same as on other days, that Bahá'u'lláh was only chanting.  I stood near the door which I had entered, and
Page 74
was only a few moments in the room when I began trembling in my whole body.  I felt I could not stand any more on my feet.  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh turning to me said 'Good bye'.  As I lifted the curtain to go out, I fell on the threshold and was unconscious.  They took me to the room of the wife of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh where they poured rose water and cold water on my face until I revived.  The members of the Family asked me what had happened and I told them about going to Bahá'u'lláh to hear the chanting.  When I was relating this, the lady who had called me first, came in, and she said to me:  'You, yourself, had asked me to permit you to be present, now that was the time when a Tablet was being revealed."
"Then I understood why Bahá'u'lláh in haste dismissed everybody.  It is because the people cannot endure it, there is such a Power in the room."
'Azízu'lláh Varqá said that his father had a similar experience during this visit to 'Akká.  His own words are:  "Father had been asked by some one to implore Bahá'u'lláh's help concerning a certain matter and to beg that a Tablet be sent.  When my father presented this petition, Bahá'u'lláh called a secretary to bring ink and paper, and He also sent for His brother Músá Kalím and another one of the relatives.  He put a hand on each one's shoulder and began to walk up and down revealing the Tablet.  Father began to tremble and he said he couldn't say what was happening.  He heard Bahá'u'lláh's voice but He could not understand His Words.  Some minutes passed and He dismissed them all.  Then outside they began to discuss and none of the three had understood Him, they had only felt the Power.  It is certainly interesting to hear about Bahá'u'lláh from those who saw and spoke with Him.  They said they could not look upon His Face, it was so glorious, the eyes so shining.  There was such a vibration that everyone began to tremble and they could not understand His Words; there was such a Power there."
__________
One evening in 'Akká, Bahá'u'lláh called 'Alí Muhammad Varqá alone to His Presence and said:  "I wish to speak with you alone tonight.  There is something in the existence that in most of the Tablets We have named the greatest Ether.  When any one is endowed with that Ether all his deeds and words will be effective in the world."
Then Bahá'u'lláh arose and walked a few steps and He continued:  "Even this walking of the Manifestation is effective."  Again sitting down, He said:  "Christ declared His Mission.  The Jews crucified Him and they thought what they had done was a very unimportant matter, and Christ was buried; but as Christ was endowed with that Ether, that Ether did not stay under the ground; It came up and did Its great work in the world."
Then Bahá'u'lláh turned to 'Alí Muhammad Varqá and said:  "See 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Master, what a wonderful effect His deeds and Words have in the world!  See how kind and patiently He endures every difficulty."  The Bahá'í, 'Alí Muhammad Varqá felt that Bahá'u'lláh really was showing him the Station of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that He would be the Successor spoken of as the Greatest Branch, and 'Alí Muhammad Varqá asked to become a martyr in the path of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The Blessed Beauty Bahá'u'lláh, accepted this sacrifice and promised the pilgrim that he should give his life in service to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
(To be continued)


XXIII:4, July 1932
page 97
The supreme affliction
A study in Bahá'í economics and socialization
Alfred E. Lunt
This article is printed in complete form at the request of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States and Canada, and has been passed by the Reviewing Committee.  It presents a very complete treatment of the economic plight in which the world finds itself today, and describes the perfect solution as found in The Order of Bahá'u'lláh.
"And We desire to show favour to those who were brought low in the land, and to make them spiritual leaders among men, and to make of them Our heirs."1
The primal necessities
God has created hunger and thirst, the need of warmth and shelter as essentials of the very existence of the human race, and has deposited within man an ever present consciousness of these needs.  Throughout the countless ages of man's occupation of the earth, these necessities have, to an overwhelming degree, been his taskmasters, the seat of his ambitions, the source of his joys and sorrows.  Since food, drink and housing are vital needs of his physical existence, and these have never been attainable except through individual effort-these primitive needs have wielded an enormous influence in the history, progress and destiny of our race.  In the hope of gold, men have yielded life.  For the power of money to purchase these necessities, men have frequently laid aside honour, and have not fallen short of the commission of detestable crimes.  The dethronement of God, in the human consciousness, and the enthronement of gold as a cherished idol, is not a mere play upon words in the past and present history of the race.
The unbalanced distribution of necessities
As the individuals of society, because of this primitive urge, identified happiness with the possession of the goods of this world, and tasted of the power that comes with the attainment of property in excess of their actual needs, the distribution of means gradually became unbalanced.  This unbalanced distribution, however, is by no means a modern phenomenon.  The emergence of humanity from the patriarchal state marked the taking on of individual responsibility for livelihood, and was the signal for a steady encroachment upon property by the more capable, more ambitious, or more unscrupulous members of society.  We must remember that up to comparatively recent times, huge masses of humanity were either slaves, possessing no right to property of any kind; serfs, with
Page 98
an inchoate right at best to a meagre ownership; or feudatories, holding their fiefs, lands or properties conditioned strictly upon an oath of unrestricted service to their lord or baron.  As a consequence, the favoured classes held all property in their sway, and vied with each other, often by private war or foray, to attain larger and larger possessions.  Many of the medieval wars had their rise in these inordinate contentions of barons and princes, in which the hapless serf or feudatory bore the brunt of the fighting.
The emergence of innate differences in economic capacity
With the successive destruction of feudalism, serfage and slavery, the struggle for existence devolved upon all men.  Theoretically each man had his chance, but, here, the innate differences in the character and capacities of men became disclosed in a universal sense and for the first time.  Initiative, education, ability, ambition for fame and power, cunning, cruelty, greed found abundant contrast with sloth, timidity, incapacity, ignorance and resignation.  These innate differences, excellencies and defects, being part of the natural order, appeared insurmountable, and opened the way for a kind of economic slavery.  Money being a seed for the reproduction of itself, tended to multiply in the hands of its possessor.  Monopolies became the order of the day.  In monarchical countries, the nobility held tightly to their landed estates, and wielded power over the commoner.  In the republics, the wealthy classes, fortified by the laws of inheritance, and tending to accumulate ever larger ratios of the available wealth and to control it, have gradually consolidated their position, to the weakening of the agricultural element, the office worker and the day labourer.
Economic insecurity
Although the universal, public school system of the west unquestionably fits the average boy and girl for a higher level of social living, and has greatly diminished the illiterate percentage, the levels above have, at the same time, proportionately advanced in wealth and power, so that the grades and degrees of society have not materially changed.  The average graduate of the public schools finds his or her economic level as a mechanic, a factory worker, a clerk, a farmer, or as proprietor of a small business.  While this represents a striking improvement over the condition of the poorer classes of past centuries, it is, nevertheless, a fact that the vast majority of the inhabitants, even in the western countries of the globe, are not economically secure, beyond the weekly receipt of their pay envelopes, and when confronted with disaster, sickness or unemployment soon deplete their small reserves.
This is strikingly illustrated in the current wave of economic collapse and its consequent unemployment which has numbed the financial nerves of every country.  The normal unemployment ratio has swelled to a three or four fold extent, and hardships and anxieties multiply.  Self respecting family heads discharged from employment and unable, after urgent quest, to find remunerative jobs, reluctantly turn to the charitable agencies.  The City of Boston,1 alone, is disbursing
Page 99
$24,000 daily2 to an ever increasing number of destitute families.  This is but an instance of what is taking place in hundreds of American cities and communities.  Doles and public aid in other countries have brought great nations to the verge of national bankruptcy.  The over production of commodities which followed and had its source in the feverish war period, has failed to adjust itself to the requirement of peace, and the demand for goods, seriously impaired by the diminished pay rolls, gives no promise of restoring the economic balance of the past decade and returning the workers to the factories in the numbers and with the earnings to which they had become accustomed since 1914.
The old order changeth, but mankind remains its prisoner
In the face of these conditions, industrial leaders and statesmen have proved themselves largely impotent.  The old order, developed from the feudal system, enchains and blinds those who are at once its beneficiaries and its victims.  While it would be idle to say that no recovery can be expected from the present economic crisis, since the economic law of supply and demand ultimately re-establishes a balance, it is, notwithstanding, equally true that such a system, susceptible, as history proves, to these repeated debacles in our economic life presents grave defects.  The prime, devastating element that at present dominates the economic life of the nations is their supine and abject surrender to the natural laws of the survival of the fittest, and the struggle for existence.  The claws of nature are unyielding and essentially cruel.  The vegetable and animal world are its truest exponents.  But is humanity likewise forever condemned to the cruelties of this soulless law of the lower levels of the creation?  This point we shall endeavour to unfold.
The tyranny of natural law
"I am not my brother's keeper", by which Cain sought to escape the questioning of the Supreme Judge, has been adopted and made a part of man's daily life.  Granted that countless exceptions exist among us, the fact remains that in the economic relationships, this purely natural law has full sway.  We salve our conscience with various forms of charitable aid and poor relief, but this is but an evasion of the issue.  A fundamental malady in the human body can be lastingly healed only by ascertaining the real cause of the malady, then by a prescription that meets the exact conditions.  May it not be that definite human rights are being ignored, that divine relationships exist which, recognized and applied, contain the solution?
Organic disease and health
We know that any undue separation of functions in an organism, any impairment of the reciprocal relations between its parts, is a certain cause of disease.  This is equivalent to disorder and discord, and may be termed the operation of the law of decomposition in the organism.  Its course, unless interrupted, is ever towards the dissolution and death of the organism.  On the other hand, the unity and health of the organism is synonymous with the
Page 100
perfect reciprocity of its parts, their full co-operation each to each.  Happiness, welfare and efficiency, according to the creative plan under which the organism came into existence is thereby bestowed.  Under these conditions, the beneficent law of composition pours its blessings of life and health upon the creature.  These primordial laws of composition and decomposition are rooted in the creation and are not inherently controllable by man.  They bestow life and death, and constitute the inevitable fate of all created life in a world of "becoming" and contingency.
Decomposition, the unerring agency of destiny
But although these basic laws of destiny are inviolable in their sphere of action, they are powerless to operate except under the exact conditions that call them forth.  They are compulsory and selective but neither voluntary nor fickle.  Like the arrow to the mark, they obey only the law of attraction and unerringly choose the habitations of their affinities.  And by this I mean it is impossible for the law of decomposition to operate in a healthy body.  Like maggots or fruit flies arising in a basket of decayed fruit or a heap of animal refuse, spontaneously appearing within rather than from without their host, decomposition enters an organism only because it is attracted by the disordered condition that exists therein.  In other words, disorder, disunity, discord-the three ds of a dismal triad-invite decay.  As Bahá'u'lláh said:  "Listen truly:  mortal eye shall never perceive the Everlasting Beauty, and the dead mind delights only in lifeless clay; for like seeks like and has affinity with its own kind."1
The body of man represents and is the highest organism we know.  Logically, and by corollary, the body of humanity, homo sapiens as a race, is likewise entitled to this distinction, in the collective or racial sense.
Nature's dualities-life and death
The picture we have endeavoured to paint but dimly and faintly depicts the vast cosmic forces that proceed from the inmost recesses of Nature, governing, limiting, expanding and controlling every material atom in the universe.  Whether composition or decomposition, fire or humidity, sour or sweet, ebb or flow, or any of the great natural dualities, these colossal forces are, in a word, the unyielding arms, the adamantine jaws, the very claws of Nature, and at the same time-since the duality persists and its other aspect must be translated into terms of human consciousness-they are the tireless servants of humanity, furnishing heat and moisture, cooling water to parched lips, life and movement to the blue ocean, and delectable fruits and grains to the taste.  Are these forces friends or foes?  Shall we fear and shun them, content in a palsied ignorance of their true origin and function-or shall we approach closely and examine them with faith and assurance, conscious of a certain oneness with them, mindful that the Lord of all Being is our common Author?  And more important, shall we submit utterly to their dominion, or shall we examine carefully the reality of these forces?  Perchance, we may possess weapons by which to conquer and subdue them.
Man, more ferocious than nature
If we treat Nature as we have been accustomed to treat our foreign nations of various colours and origins,
Page 101
with fear and poorly concealed detestation, it is certain she will, in her time, turn and rend us, or at least will have the last word.  This is because only by studying her changing moods, born of the duality, in a sympathetic and dauntless spirit, can we adapt these forces to the up building of civilization.  As we cannot control or change the inherent properties of the laws of life and death, as was previously stated, so we cannot change natural elements such as fire into moisture, or water, per se, into something lacking humidity.  But we can, and have, converted the action of fire into grateful warmth, and diverted it from turning into a destructive conflagration; we have transformed certain chemical elements into a humane, soothing anaesthetic, and we, also, have, shameful to say, utilized other natural elements and cunningly and cold heartedly converted them into deadly and devastating vapours today threatening, with the menace of potential war, millions of living men, women and children.  Man has done this.  And it is a fair question to ask, whether Nature, workshop of the mysteries of creation as she is, hurler of the thunderbolt and the twisting tornado, is to be feared as are those men to be feared who consciously and deliberately in the name of an abandoned, rejected and false patriotism, hideous in their ferocity and cruelty, today forge the implements which, should war come again, will break the heart of mankind?
Nature yields to science certain aspects of her sovereignty
To resume.  The purpose of this apparent diversion from the subject is to provide the basis upon which to certify to two outstanding verities.  First, that man can adapt the blind, unintelligent forces of nature to purposes apparently contrary to their normal uses, as, for instance, sending his body under and beneath the sea in a submarine containing oxygen, which defeats the natural law that has for ages barred the body of man from the ocean depths; or imprisoning within a storage battery or confining to wires, the rampant force of electricity whose nature, undisturbed, is to be elusive, free, cosmic and unrestrained.  In a word-man possessed of a power unknown to Nature, superior to Nature and transcending Nature even as the mind transcends the mere instinct, bends the natural forces to his own ends.
A new and greater conquest now required
And, second, that whi1e we cannot change or recreate the inherent properties of the natural elements, such as converting a basic element into another element, we can, to a degree not yet wholly understood and determined as to its scope, formulate and prepare the conditions in a particular device, or, (and this is the all important issue) within our (man's) own organism, both individually and racially, which will attract the beneficent, kindly, life giving forces of nature, rather than those containing the elements of destruction.  And this is but the first step.  For behind these beneficent and kindly forces, the Sun of Truth which is the Word of God pours forth a love and a knowledge compared to which the greatest light of Nature is but a guttering candle.  It is these divine powers that are our ultimate goal.
Page 102
A point of receptivity for these reposes in the breast of man.  But the fortifications of Nature must first be stormed.
The Equilibrium of health and the law of decomposition
It may, here, be objected that we are confusing the disease itself with the process or law of decomposition, or attributing to every disease two major causations.  That the disease sets up its own pathology and no force enters from without in the sense of an all embracing law.  Furthermore, that all diseases are self communicatory and do not, and cannot, per se, constitute an affinity which attracts anything whatsoever.
We submit, however, that the equilibrium of the elements within an organism is the point from which all deviations from the normal must depart.  As we conceive this abstruse problem, and take as the most perfect example, the body of man, it is plain, for example, that if, in such a body, the prime elements of organic iron, calcium or manganese, or any of these, are either in excess of the normal or abnormally diminished in volume, in the blood stream, a departure from the health equilibrium is thereby instanced which sooner or later must produce a disordered functioning.  This is the first step toward what we call disease.  The resistant factors within the body do their utmost to combat and neutralize the poisons that are automatically created by the disturbance, but if the conditions setting it in motion are not drastically changed, through a dietary and regime adapted to the need, and then only in case the organic functions are not too greatly impaired, the disorder is progressive and death intervenes.  Because of this basic law of life and health, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in an illuminating and profound Tablet at one time stated that when material medical had advanced on scientific lines sufficiently to become competent to analyze a drop of blood, to the extent of disclosing the presence and ratio of every essential element there present, each to each, medical science would at that moment have within its hands the key to health.  Once knowing the degree of the departure or deviation from the normal of the elements requisite to health, and comparing this with the known proportions which each element should occupy in the blood flowing through a healthy body, the restoration of health was to be found in the assimilation of those organic aliments necessary to restore the equilibrium, or, conversely, in the reduction of intake of those aliments which had been found to be in excess in the blood of the patient.
There remains to be proved the part played by the natural disintegrating force at the focal point of the disease we have instanced.  This force ever seeks to break down and destroy any composed organism.  It is antithetical to that which draws together and composes the essential particles that, as units, we know as living beings.  It is separative, disorganizing and ever tends to resolve the combination of elements back into their original, unrelated, and independent status.  Thus, the decomposition of water releases the molecules of hydrogen and oxygen, hitherto held together by the sanction of composition-into their original loneliness.  The affinity that
Page 103
drew them together as moisture, is shattered.  Similarly, the more complex organisms, such as the animal, in the transformation of death yield up their elements which had been conjoined during the life of the animal.  The moving force in this process is this natural law of change and death.  Other demonstrations exist of which lack of space prevents the details, but the essential process has become clear.
The forces of decomposition within our economic life are powerless unless man opens the door to their visitation
But, in all this, the application of our thesis is primarily that a departure from the equilibrium of health and composition must exist before the destructive element can assert its power and accelerate the progress of the disease through the inflow of the separative impulse.  Without this departure, the organism is immune.  Secondly, that an intelligent organism, as is man, may, through this knowledge, and the power of self analysis, become cognizant of three things:  1)  The existence of a diseased state within his collective or racial body, in its economic relationships; 2)  His recognition of a power which he innately possesses to change voluntarily, and in accordance with these basic, universal laws, the disorder within himself for which he, alone, is responsible; and 3)  By thus applying the eternal axiom "Physician, heal thyself" employing those economic remedies that are the true "aliments" for the restoration of economic equilibrium, he will rout the enemy of his well-being by depriving it of the nutrition it must have for the accomplishment of its fell purpose.  The situation calls for a racial adaptation of the story of Hercules and the earth-giant Antaeus.  The giant's strength became atrophied and impotent when deprived of the vitalizing forces of his earth mother.  May humanity shake off the tentacles of this strangling power by summoning its God given resolution, drinking deep of the Cup of Knowledge which God has extended to this storm tossed planet in this New Day, and with the divine weapon of heart and soul destroy forever the selfish and egotistic veils that have made him lose hope in successfully changing what he calls "human nature" which is in reality but a base surrender to the natural law that holds him in its grip.  The being who has succeeded in harnessing the fire and the lightnings of Nature, will not fall short in subduing the more interior and subtle natural force that has so long tyrannized over the use and distribution of the vital necessities of his life, such as food and drink, shelter and comfort.  He, man, will not, must not fail in this greatest of all conquests even though, to thus finally assert his divinely bestowed spiritual sovereignty over the power of Nature, he must pay the full price, by sacrificing and yielding up the doubtful guerdon1 of living unto himself alone.  The New Age calls him to this greater happiness; the law of unity, deposited by the Ancient of Days in every infinitely small and infinitely great created being, calls him to establish now his own unity; to put aside the playthings of the past and lay hold of the strong rope that God has revealed in this dawn of human maturity; to place himself under a law greater than Nature, a law emanating from Him who created Nature
Page 104
and all her works through His Wisdom and Power.  Why should mankind, possessing attributes and powers directly derived from Divinity Itself, and never possessed by Nature, the intelligence and will to conquer Nature's cosmic forces, be content to subject himself any longer to her domination over his most precious material relationships?  The installation of love for his fellow men, the assertion of his divinely given will are invincible forces, that no merely natural power can withstand.  The Way is open.  Shall we walk therein, or continue to wander in the gloomy morasses of self delusion?
The thesis
Our thesis, then, is-that since humanity, through its noble and gifted inventors and scientific discoveries, has proved its God given right to invade the darksome cavern which is Nature's fastness and stronghold, bringing forth therefrom, bound and captive the titanic forces which he, mankind, has proceeded to adapt to his material service upon the earth-it is certain, that through a spiritual power he even now possesses, he will apply this same process, on a higher plane, to release and free millions of his own race, made in the temple and image of Almighty God, and still held fast within the claws of nature, from the economic shackles that, today, deprive them of inherent and innate rights, withhold from their out reached hands the little comforts they crave, confine them to factory, office building and mine unnecessarily long hours, and deny them that vital interest in the great businesses they have assisted to up build to which, under the law of God, they are entitled.  To remedy these diseases that, in this century, have brought low the industrial and commercial structure over well nigh the whole earth, is the task and duty of every soul informed of the divinely spiritual basis upon which the economic relationships rest; of every far seeing business man who has realized even a trace of the organic unity of mankind; and of every labour leader whose vision is big enough to see beyond the ranks of his own group and to identify their true interests with those of every other basic element of the industrial fabric.
The reason for this is because "The fundamentals of the whole economic condition are divine in nature and are associated with the world of the heart and spirit."2  Without knowledge of the principles contemplated in this preceding quotation, no improvement in the economic state can be realized.
Nature is powerless to confer upon men the knowledge of how to achieve this new economic freedom.  Nay, rather, the mind and heart of mankind, derived from a Source that is supernatural, even from God, possess those keys that will unlock the treasuries of knowledge that have been prepared against this very use in this New Age.  But let not man suppose he can, in this, underestimate the power of Nature which has for so long defeated and enslaved him.  He must watch her (in her interior workings within his social and economic life) even as the cat watches the mouse, or, more accurately, the mouse watches the cat.  Up to now, the cat has toyed with the mouse almost as it willed, in the great economic kitchen of
Page 105
humanity.  Man, unwittingly or urged on by greed, has left wide open the door through which the similitude of Nature delights to stalk.  This door is no other than human covetousness, ignorance, strife and discord, the cutting off, by violent and harsh means, of the essential relationship that exists within the Kingdom of Man and between its component parts (individual men).  This essential relationship is that which, in the Divine Mind, has made of humanity, as a whole, an organism of sacred and highest destiny.  Put in another way, every human being, white or coloured, it matters not, is a cell within this vast organism and entitled by divine right to the co-operation and reciprocal aid of every other cell, without exception or possibility of error; even as he in turn contributes of his full strength and function to the welfare of the whole.  Who is so blind, after consideration of this strictly accurate and dynamically scientific fact, as to deny its truth?
We have previously demonstrated the unanswerable truth that the human body is the archetype of all organisms.  Can the aggregate of human beings, fortified as they are by the possession of mind and soul, be less organically one than is a single cell of this great collective racial entity?
Applying these sacred and basic truths, and emphasizing again the deadly accuracy of that spiritual science that informs man of the divine reality of his own essential oneness, we would now apply it as the sole and inevitable formula for the healing of our economic life.  Wise men of all nations will grasp this formula, even as the sore athirst seizes the cup of cool water.  From countless sources, today, men of vision are recorded in expressions that prove their awakening to the penetrating power of this irrefutable, universal axiom.  Even as "My people perish for lack of knowledge" equally it may be said:  "My people are revivified and made whole by accepting and applying the advices of Him who is the Knower, the Generous."
In this demonstration, full recognition must be given to the fact that the law of decomposition in its long sway over the psychology and egoistic consciousness of mankind, is not so easily overpowered as are some of nature's lesser children, such as chemical elements, fire and electricity.  This is because that death dealing law, in its purely human phase, is associated with the ultimate destinies.  There are strict limits to which mankind can guide its operations; although even in its more terrifying aspects it is, in reality, as are all natural laws, the symbol of Divine Providence, and the pathway to His Nearness and Good Pleasure.
Man's supreme affliction
Since the decompositional phenomena invariably and solely appear, as has been mentioned in detail, within an organism which has, consciously or ignorantly, allowed its original functions to become disordered, we must, in fairness, admit that these reappearing economic upheavals, this present state of suffering and threatened starvation in which millions of human beings today find themselves, comprise unerring evidence that the economic life of humanity has become the prey of the destructive, obdurate, negative
Page 106
power of nature, the sinister element of its duality.  What can humanity do to stem this tide, which engulfs not only our industrial life, but is also the prime cause of every war that history records?  Must the race perish for lack of knowledge?
The answer is plain.  The causes contributing to the disease that has sapped our industrial strength must be resolutely uncovered and the remedy administered.  Without attempting to enumerate every pathological lesion in our economic system, it will suffice to point out some of the major elements that, at present, operate to attract the destructive forces which have assailed the world.
Let us begin with the greatest constructive remedy, in a general sense-following this with an enumeration of the existing maladjustments that are opposed to economic health:
Fellowship and unity
The inculcation of love and of unity between all men is a mighty restoring agency for all these ills.  This must be realized.  It is, in reality, the essence of the divine elixir, which has been prescribed by the Divine Physician of this Age.  The oneness of mankind, our essential brotherhood, is the hope and promise of everyone of the great, universal Teachers and Prophets.  This century marks the dawn and the practical expression of this great truth in the life of humanity.  This is the reality of man.  Every strife and discord in our common life together arises from the conflict of personalities.  But the realities of the souls are in accord.  The leaders of the business world must investigate this resplendent reality, and apply this unity in the business life of the world.  On this point, 'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "Science cannot cure the illness of the body politic.  Science cannot create amity and fellowship in human hearts.  Neither can patriotism nor racial allegiance effect a remedy.  It must be accomplished solely through the divine bounties and spiritual bestowals which have descended from God in this day for that purpose."1  Arrayed against this truly divine elixir for social and economic health, are these traditional, ingrained and sadly disordered states of present day civilization, centring largely in the business and political fields.
1.  The principle of trusteeship
Failure to recognize and apply the trust relationship essentially existing between the poor and rich, the fortunate and the unfortunate.  Since in every trust, there must be a trustee, a trust fund, and a beneficiary, no room is left under this arrangement for further continuance of the laissez faire policy by which man contemplates his fellow man as a creature apart, admitting no responsibility towards him.  Pauperism, wretchedness and misery cannot exist in the same world with this trust principle, which is based upon the right of every member of the human family to the necessities of life, provided he, in turn, contributes his part as a worker in the world.  This basic remedy will, further on, be elaborated, as will certain of the other headings of this section.
2.  The tithe
Almost entire ignorance of the divine and basic law governing the tithe or income tax.
Page 107
3.  Organic relationship between labour and capital
The barrier which has been built up between labour and capital, employee and employer.  This is, in effect, a lack of unity and understanding among the leaders of both classes of their real organic relationship.
4.  Taxation
A system of taxation which ignores the true principle upon which contributions to the state or government should be based.
5.  Strikes and profit sharing
Strikes and lockouts in industry are a symptom, merely, of the faulty relations of worker and employer.  The bargaining power of the great trades unions is based upon the collective influence of multitudes of workers whose only protection against injustice has been conceived to lie in the creation of a class bound together by a community of interest.  But this community of interest is wrongly placed.  It should be with the employer whose success and profit depends upon the worker's faithfulness and efficiency.  Classes are an indication of separation in the business organism, and this has attracted the destructive forces of which strikes and labour troubles are but an inevitable result.  The conflicting elements, therefore, must be bound together in unity through a common interest.  This interest is attained through true profit sharing which contemplates a type of partnership or ownership in the business, on the part of the worker.  This means, rightly worked out, a new and hitherto unknown peace will come to the industrial ranks, which no outside force can break.  Besides this, the principle of wages sufficient to assure the workmen of an adequate support should be supplemented by the adoption of a method of pensions to be accorded to faithful workers who have become feeble and helpless.  The purpose in all this is to confer a sense of security upon the worker who comprises the vast majority of all men.  This is brotherhood illumined by the light of justice.  Wages, alone, fall short of justice to the man or woman whose hands, skilled or unskilled have become calloused and hardened by countless hours and successive years of faithful service to his or her employer, firm or corporation.
The class theory in industry, an organic disease
Without this toil, the wheels of industry cannot turn; without this daily grind of human tissues and energies, no profits will appear.  These workers are a component and essential part of the business organism with which they have allied themselves and are entitled to their part in its ownership.  Only a blind and unsound reasoning can justify the continuance of the class theory, in industry.  To do so is to descend to the level of inorganic life, the lowest mineral state.  No-man, and his economic relationships with his fellow man, is organic, inter related, cohered.  The lowly functions of the nails, hair and skin in the human body are essentials to bodily health and efficiency.  The finer organs of the brain and heart, the eye and the ear all contribute instant succour and unfailing co-operation to those lowlier parts, which, in turn, protect and round out the perfec-
Page 108
tion of the whole.  No neglect appears in a true organism for any of its parts.  The welfare of each is the vital concern of all.  And, conversely, the affliction or impairment of any is a menace to the health of the whole body.  It takes but little acumen to apply this example of a universal solvent of industrial harmony to the present confused, uncoordinated industrial picture.
6.  The upliftment and security of agriculture
At the present time, the economic status of the farmer has suffered owing, in part, to overproduction in a world wide sense, and the lessened demand which characterizes the present impoverishment of the general population.  Agriculture is of first importance in the modern state.  Plans of a co-operative nature must be applied to strengthen and fortify the producer through the application of the new principles of trust relationship, mutual aid and taxation, to the agricultural communities.  Encouragement and assistance must be extended to the large mass of our urban floating populations, now economically insecure, to return to the land, where many of the necessities of life may be provided through scientific farming.  The present unbalanced artificial and highly abnormal life of the cities is, at best, a symptom of immoderation, and has built up false standards of living for millions who are thereby deprived of the blessings of that normal existence which is synonymous with a country life.  Moderation, without which the truly balanced life is impossible, is a vital feature of the civilization now dawning upon humanity.
7.  Labour saving machinery should be in part an asset of labour
The failure of employers, generally, to grant the workers any part of the savings in the cost of operation of a business effected by the enormous increase in the use of labour saving machinery, and, its corollary, the retention of schedules of working hours which are a survival of conditions existing before the advent of the machine age.
8.  Injustice to workers no longer young
Servile and selfish submission of the business world to the unchecked operation of the natural law of the survival of the fittest which is cruelly and unwittingly applied to the elimination from industry of workers who have passed a certain age, regardless of their ability or physical fitness.
9.  Provision for work-its spiritual and real significance
The present faulty system of provision for work, due, in part, to the maladjustment now existing between the urban and the agricultural occupations.  In this New Age, arts, sciences and all crafts are considered as worship, when undertaken in the right spirit.  The basis for this is that all effort and exertion put forth by man from the fullness of his heart is worship, if prompted by the highest motives and the will to do service to humanity.  Since all men are commanded to work and engage themselves in some one occupation, the avenues of permanent occupation must be opened through suitable enactments and provisions.  Bahá'u'lláh tells us:  "We have made this-your occupation-identical with the worship of God, the True
Page 109
One."1  This will release into the fields of production and wealth vast numbers of persons at present occupying, economically speaking, a purely parasitic status.
10.  The tariff
Brief mention has been made of the tariff barriers that separate the nations.  This subject is of baffling complexity unless the touchstone presented in this thesis is courageously, unflinchingly and universally applied.  Granted that every tariff, other than nominal, constitutes a barrier between the nations who are, from this point of view, interdependent cells or functions of the grand organic body of the race, it is clear that such unnatural and purely provincial enactments must, inevitably, set up a pathology quite outside and contrary to the fundamental and divine proposition that humanity is essentially one family.  The reprisals visited by other countries upon an inordinately high tariff made into law by a particular country, the resentments that are set up, and, more practically speaking, the boomerang like effect upon the particular country in the impairment of its foreign trade as a consequence of the inability of foreign nations to pay their commodity debts in goods because of the high premiums exacted by the tariff impositions, is an evidence of this truth.  This fact is well known, and is a material contribution to the present international economic catastrophe.  There is a growing realization of this which the rapid reproached of nations together, in recent years, has engendered.
The old order justified itself in its tariff policy because it was founded upon the conception of nations as independent entities, supremely sufficient unto themselves.  Other nations were foreign, untrustworthy, or, at best, precariously inimical to the fatherland.  Racially they were of a different order, according to this view, ever hatching sinister designs against the fatherland, and in some strange way less human than ourselves.  The strange and unknown is ever synonymous in the human mind with fear and distrust.  But the new world order instituted by Bahá'u'lláh knows neither strangeness nor foreignness.  Under its dynamic impulse, nations are being drawn together, while in the process the scales of superstition and fear fall from the eyes of the different peoples, as the snow flake melts and vanishes under the warm sun.  This is because of the universal action of the Sun of Truth whose powerful rays are penetrating the densest veils.
The liquidation of the tariff question will necessarily be a gradual process; paralleling the attainment of homo genesis by the nations.  The strongest bulwark of the tariff is its appeal for the preservation of the standards of living in a country fortunate enough to enable its people to utilize a larger degree of comforts and luxuries than is possessed by less favoured nations.  Only as the sharing of benefits is applied, only as the consciousness of the organic oneness of the whole race is implanted, only to the degree that the entire body of mankind becomes sensitized to the needs of its weaker members, will the appeal of the argument for the sustainment of a specialized and strictly localized standard of living lose its force.  But since this fundamental spiritual precept is an es-
Page 110
sential element of the new world order, that transforming power is certain, in the coming days, to eliminate every outworn element, even as the mighty surges of ocean cast upon the shore every impurity.
11.  The unconscionable levies of war
The demands and exactions of national governments for military and naval expenditures, which consume the major part of all governmental income, based upon both direct and indirect taxation of the people, and are a moving cause of tariff walls between countries, enacted for the purpose of revenue production for the payment of these crushing and unhallowed obligations.
12.  A universal language
The reinforcement of industry in the international relations by concentration, without further delay, upon the selection of a universal language, through which improved communication and understanding with foreign business houses and industries will result, is an important remedy to the existing confusion and misunderstandings witnessed in international business dealings.
The need of an aqua fortis1
Let us now elaborate, somewhat, certain of these major headings that are of special importance in the readjustment aimed at.  It must not be supposed that a deep seated disease, which has baffled the best economic specialists by its stubborn and frequently violent symptoms, a disease that is so chronic that those whom it has made ill have, indeed, confused its manifestations with those of normality, can be cured with mere bread and water or sugar pills.  Nay, the patient, in this case, is so near dissolution that a strong and bitter remedy must be administered, an aqua fortis as it were, and the reactions may be, at first, convulsive, and akin to the agonies of resuscitation.
The reader will have already noted those of the above headings that constitute the point of adjustment, or moderation, between the crystallized theories of extreme capitalism and its polar opposite, socialism.  This balance, in the midst of unbalance, is one of the greatest contributions in economic thought to be unfolded by Bahá'u'lláh.  Fundamentally stated by Bahá'u'lláh, its teaching was extended and applied practically by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Many, perhaps most, of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's most profound discourses on the economic phase of life, were declared on American and Canadian platforms, and in western pulpits.
Capitalism and socialism
The sternest and most unrelenting objection to the adoption of the maxims of socialism has been and is its supposed assault upon the right to hold private property, and its feared interference with the vested right of individual initiative.  In western countries this threat to an ancient inheritance of individual rights has produced a determined resistance that has successfully curbed any noteworthy political advance of the socialist state.  No socialist political party, even in the brief days of power it may have attained in a few instances, has applied to the government of the state the full impact of socialism.  This is because of this inherent, somewhat unaccountable urge within the
Page 111
human breast, which instinctively opposes any undue limitation of its alleged right to self expression and self advancement.  Russia alone has succeeded, through the terrorism of revolution and regicide, in implanting a new theory of government, pseudo-socialistic in its nature, but only by the institution of a new ruling class deriving its power from a minority of the population.  But the differentiation of class is not, per se, a basic doctrine of true rather, an average levelling of all society, and the ultimate elimination of economic class distinctions.
The prime defect of capitalism
The Bahá'í Economic Plan supplies the remedy for two major defects in the capitalistic and socialistic conceptions.  As stated above, it is the moderating force that ever seeks the equilibrium of the two extremities or opposing polarities.  The defect of capitalism has been its unwillingness to apply the doctrine of human unity in its relationship with the working class; its failure to recognize its interdependence, which calls for sharing and co-operation, with the other integral elements of the business organism.  Regardless of the increase of profits in favourable times, notwithstanding the lowering of the cost of operation and production through the wholesale discharge of workers occasioned by new labour-saving machinery, the capitalistic idea has, in the main, been to absorb for itself, its owners and stockholders, every dollar of net profit.  The true theory, however, is that the benefits derived from new inventions be distributed, in a reasonable and just way, to those directly affected, in this case both employer and employee.  Every invention adapted to industry is, in reality, clothed with a public interest in which the worker has a share.  Both justice and equity require that the employer, alone, be not permitted to absorb 100% of the benefits.  Independent of the profit sharing plan, elsewhere treated, this blow to labour may be at least in part redressed by new and diminished schedules of working hours, thus making unnecessary the discharge of workers, while at the same time preserving wage schedules so far as possible.  Such action would have an intensely stabilizing effect.  Very recently, one of the largest industrial corporations in America has announced its intention to place its workers on a six hour basis, while simultaneously increasing its working forces to correspond with the new conditions.
The fundamental defect of socialism
The inherent defect in the socialistic philosophy, on the other hand, is its philosophical inability to recognize the innate and created differences in human capacity and attainment.  Any departure from the conception of humanity as an organism, merely confuses the issue.  The organic relationships are synonymous with the differences in capacities; and each proves the existence of the other.  This being true, no dead level can be successfully brought about in human society.  The function of the heart can never be imposed upon the function of the liver, or the finger nails.  To attempt this is only to repeat the dubious experiment of Lycurgus, King of Sparta, who divided all the property of the king-
Page 112
dom equally, and assigned to each man his place.  After Lycurgus left the kingdom, believing it to be permanently established in accordance with his plan, these innate differences of capacity among his former subjects speedily reasserted themselves, and the old order was re-established.
Reciprocal and organic co-operation essential to human happiness
The problem, therefore, is to build, in accordance with the new order of this century, the true reciprocal co-operation between all the human cells of this vast organism, in closest mutual service.  This is the true law of being; this is the condition basically essential to the happiness and welfare of humanity.  Under such a condition, there will be no extreme poverty, no man without the necessities of life.  Nor will it be possible for a wealthy man, possessed of means far beyond his needs, to live in happiness side by side with one who is starving and wretched.  The trust principle as applied to the economic world is inclusive of the rights of all; it is not only protective of the rights of private property and initiative, but at the same time destroys pauperism and insures the necessities of life, as a right rather than a dole, to every willing worker and to every unfortunate one who without fault on his part is the victim of economic disaster.  This truly divine law is the point of reconciliation between the contending forces of capitalism and socialism.  It destroys fear and will draw men together in the solution of their common problems.  It is the solvent of the chemistry that has arrayed its elements against each other in fear and distrust, leaving itself wide open to the influx of the destructive forces.
The ingredients of the Divine Remedy
Let us turn at this point to the utterances of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and see of what the remedy of the Divine Physician is composed.  We are painfully aware of the disease, and the only question is whether we have suffered enough to awaken us to acceptance of a real remedy, rather than to continue to imbibe mere nostrums and sedatives.
We have hitherto refrained from excessive quotation from these Words of Life and Guidance, realizing that this matter must be capable of expression in its practical applications, by a simple layman who may be assumed to represent, to some degree at least, the viewpoint of students of this world wide problem.  But any inspiration we have received is due to the power and justice of these Words about to be quoted:
Bahá'u'lláh says:
"O YE RICH ONES ON EARTH!
"The poor in your midst are My trust; guard ye My trust, and be not intent only on your own ease."1
"O CHILDREN OF DUST!
"Tell the rich of the midnight sighing of the poor, lest heedlessness lead them into the path of destruction, and deprive them of the Tree of Wealth.  To give and to be generous are attributes of Mine; well is it with him that adorneth himself with My virtues."2
"O SON OF MAN!
"Bestow My wealth upon My poor, that in
Page 113
heaven thou mayest draw from stores of unfading splendour and treasures of imperishable glory.  But by My life!  To offer up thy soul is a more glorious thing couldst thou but see with Mine eye."1
"O SON OF SPIRIT!
"Vaunt not thyself over the poor, for I lead him on his way and behold thee in thy evil plight and confound thee for evermore."2
"O SON OF MAN!
"Thou dost wish for gold and I desire thy freedom from it.  Thou thinkest thyself rich in its possession, and I recognize thy wealth in thy sanctity therefrom.  By My life!  This is My knowledge, and that is thy fancy; how can My way accord with thine?"3
"O SON OF BEING!
"If poverty overtake thee, be not sad; for in time the Lord of wealth shall visit thee.  Fear not abasement, for glory shall one day rest on thee."4
"O SON OF MAN!
"Should prosperity befall thee, rejoice not, and should abasement come upon thee, grieve not, for both shall pass away and be no more."5
"O QUINTESSENCE OF PASSION!
"Put away all covetousness and seek contentment; for the covetous hath ever been deprived, and the contented hath ever been loved and praised."6
"O MY SERVANTS!
"Ye are the trees of My garden; ye must give forth goodly and wondrous fruits, that ye yourselves and others may profit therefrom.  Thus it is incumbent on every one to engage in crafts and professions, for therein lies the secret of wealth, O men of understanding!  For results depend upon means, and the grace of God shall be all-sufficient unto you.  Trees that yield no fruit have been and will ever be for the fire."7
"O MY SERVANT!
"The best of men are they that earn a livelihood by their calling and spend upon themselves and upon their kindred for the love of God, the Lord of all worlds."8
"O OPPRESSORS ON EARTH!
"Withdraw your hands from tyranny, for I have pledged Myself not to forgive any man's injustice.  This is My covenant which I have irrevocably decreed in the preserved tablet and sealed with My seal."9
"O CHILDREN OF NEGLIGENCE!
"Set not your affections on mortal sovereignty and rejoice not therein.  Ye are even as the unwary bird that with full confidence warbleth upon the bough; till of a sudden the fowler Death throws it upon the dust, and the melody, the form and the colour are gone, leaving not a trace.  Wherefore take heed, O bondslaves of desire!"10
"It is enjoined upon every one of you to engage in some form of occupation, such as crafts, trades and the like.  We have graciously exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of worship unto God, the True One.  Ponder ye in your hearts the grace and the blessings of God and render thanks unto Him at eventide and at dawn."11
"O CHILDREN OF MEN!
"Know ye not why We created you all from the same dust?  That no one should exalt himself over the other.  Ponder at all times in your hearts how ye were created.  Since We have created you all from one same substance it is incumbent on you to be even as one soul, to walk with the same feet, eat with the same mouth and dwell in the same land, that from your inmost being, by your deeds and actions, the signs of oneness and the essence of detachment
Page 114
may be made manifest.  Such is My counsel to you, O concourse of light!  Heed ye this counsel that ye may obtain the fruit of holiness from the tree of wondrous glory."1
"... through the ideal power he should be free and emancipated from the captivity of the world of nature; for as long as man is captive to nature he is a ferocious animal, as the struggle for existence is one of the exigencies of the world of nature.  This matter of the struggle for existence is the fountain-head of all calamities and is the supreme affliction."2
"Religion is the outer expression of the divine reality.  Therefore, it must be living, vitalized, moving and progressive.  If it be without motion and non-progressive, it is without the divine life; it is dead.  The divine institutes are continuously active and evolutionary; therefore, the revelation of them must be progressive and continuous.  All things are subject to reformation.  This is a century of life and renewal.  Sciences and arts, industry and invention have been reformed.  Law and ethics have been reconstituted, reorganized.  The world of thought has been regenerated.  Sciences of former ages and philosophies of the past are useless today.  Present exigencies demand new methods of solution; world problems are without precedent.  Old ideas and modes of thought are fast becoming obsolete.  Ancient laws and archaic ethical systems will not meet the requirements of modern conditions, for this is clearly the century of a new life, the century of the revelation of reality and, therefore, the greatest of all centuries."3
"The essence of the matter is that divine justice will become manifest in human conditions and affairs, and all mankind will find comfort and enjoyment in life.  It is not meant that all will be equal, for inequality in degree and capacity is a property of nature.  Necessarily there will be rich people and also those who will be in want of their livelihood, but in the aggregate community there will be equalization and readjustment of values and interests.  In the future there will be no very rich nor extremely poor.  There will be an equilibrium of interests, and a condition will be established which will make both rich and poor comfortable and content.  This will be an eternal and blessed outcome of the glorious twentieth century which will be realized universally.  The significance of it is that the glad tidings of great joy revealed in the promises of the Holy Books will be fulfilled.  Await ye this consummation."4
"If wealth were a necessity, Christ would have wished it for himself:  He lived a simple life, and one of the titles of Bahá'u'lláh was 'the poor one'.  In Persian His title was 'darvish' and that means one who has not a slave.
"All the prophets of God were poor, His Holiness Moses was a mere shepherd.  This will show you that in the estimation of God, poverty is greater than the accumulation of wealth-that the poor are more acceptable than the lazy rich.  A rich man who spends his wealth for the poor is praiseworthy."5
Page 115
"What could be better before God than thinking of the poor?  For the poor are beloved by our heavenly Father.  When His Holiness Christ came upon the earth those who believed in him and followed him were the poor and lowly, showing the poor were near to God.  When a rich man believes and follows the Manifestation of God it is a proof that his wealth is not an obstacle and does not prevent him from attaining the pathway of salvation.  After he has been tested and tried it will be seen whether his possessions are a hindrance in his religious life.  But the poor are especially beloved of God.  Their lives are full of difficulties, their trials continual, their hopes are in God alone.  Therefore you must assist the poor as much as possible, even by sacrifice of yourself.  No deed of man is greater before God than helping the poor.  Spiritual conditions are not dependent upon the possession of worldly treasures or the absence of them.  When physically destitute, spiritual thoughts are more likely.  Poverty is stimulus toward God.  Each one of you must have great consideration for the poor and render them assistance.  Organize in an effort to help them and prevent increase of poverty.  The greatest means for prevention is that whereby the laws of the community will be so framed and enacted that it will not be possible for a few to be millionaires and many destitute."1
"Then it is clear that the honour and exaltation of man must be something more than material riches.  Material comforts are only a branch, but the root of the exaltation of man is the good attributes and virtues which are the adornments of his reality.  These are the divine appearances, the heavenly bounties, the sublime emotions, the love and knowledge of God; universal wisdom, intellectual perception, scientific discoveries, justice, equity, truthfulness, benevolence, natural courage and innate fortitude; the respect for rights and the keeping of agreements and covenants; rectitude in all circumstances; serving the truth under all conditions; the sacrifice of one's life for the good of all people; kindness and esteem for all nations; obedience to the teachings of God; service in the Divine Kingdom; the guidance of the people, and the education of the nations and races.  This is the prosperity of the human world!  This is the exaltation of man in the world!  This is eternal life and heavenly honour!
These virtues do not appear from the reality of man except through the power of God and the divine teachings, for they need supernatural power for their manifestation.  It may be that in the world of nature a trace of these perfections may appear, but they are unstable and ephemeral; they are like the rays of the sun upon the wall.
As the compassionate God has placed such a wonderful crown upon the head of man, man should strive that its brilliant jewels may become visible in the world."2
"The disease which afflicts the body politic is lack of love and absence of altruism.  In the hearts of men no real love is found, and the condition is such that, unless their susceptibilities are quickened by some power so that unity, love and accord may develop within them, there can be no healing, no agreement
Page 116
among mankind.  Love and unity are the needs of the body politic today.  Without these there can be no progress or prosperity attained.  Therefore, the friends of God must adhere to the power which will create this love and unity in the hearts of the sons of men. ...  This is an exigency of the times, and the divine remedy has been provided.  The spiritual teachings of the religion of God can alone create this love, unity and accord in human hearts.
"Therefore, hold to these heavenly agencies which God has provided so that through the love of God this soul-bond may be established, this heart-attachment realized and the light of the reality of unity be reflected from you throughout the universe."1
"The fundamentals of the whole economic condition are divine in nature and are associated with the world of the heart and spirit.  This is fully explained in the Bahá'í teaching, and without knowledge of its principles no improvement in the economic state can be realized."2
"Among the results of the manifestation of spiritual forces will be that the human world will adapt itself to a new social form, the justice of God will become manifest throughout human affairs, and human equality will be universally established.  The poor will receive a great bestowal, and the rich attain eternal happiness.  For although at the present time the rich enjoy the greatest luxury and comfort, they are nevertheless deprived of eternal happiness; for eternal happiness is contingent upon giving, and the poor are everywhere in the state of abject need.  Through the manifestation of God's great equity the poor of the world will be rewarded and assisted fully, and there will be a readjustment in the economic conditions of mankind so that in the future there will not be the abnormally rich nor the abject poor.  The rich will enjoy the privilege of this new economic condition as well as the poor, for owing to certain provisions and restrictions they will not be able to accumulate so much as to be burdened by its management, while the poor will be relieved from the stress of want and misery.  The rich will enjoy his palace, and the poor will have his comfortable cottage."3
"The mystery of this phenomenon, the cause thereof is this, that mankind has been created from one single origin, has branched off from one family.  Thus in reality all mankind represents one family.  God has not created any difference.  He has created all as one that thus this family might live in perfect happiness and well-being.
"Regarding reciprocity and co-operation:  each member of the body politic should live in the utmost comfort and welfare because each individual member of humanity is a member of the body politic and if one member of the members be in distress or be afflicted with some disease all the other members must necessarily suffer.  For example, a member of the human organism is the eye."4
The sympathetic nervous system of the body of mankind
"If the eye should be affected that affliction would affect the whole nervous sys-
Page 117
tem.  Hence, if a member of the body politic becomes afflicted, in reality, from the standpoint of sympathetic connection, all will share that affliction since this (one afflicted) is a member of the group of members, a part of the whole.  Is it possible for one member or part to be in distress and the other members to be at ease?  It is impossible!  Hence God has desired that in the body politic of humanity each one shall enjoy perfect welfare and comfort."5
A disordered household
"Although the body politic is one family yet because of lack of harmonious relations some members are comfortable and some in direst misery, some members are satisfied and some are hungry, some members are clothed in most costly garments and some families are in need of food and shelter.  Why?  Because this family lacks the necessary reciprocity and symmetry.  This household is not well arranged.  This household is not living under a perfect law.  All the laws which are legislated do not ensure happiness.  They do not provide comfort.  Therefore a law must be given to this family by means of which all the members of this family will enjoy equal well-being and happiness.
"Is it possible for one member of a family to be subjected to the utmost misery and to abject poverty and for the rest of the family to be comfortable?  It is impossible unless those members of the family be senseless, atrophied, inhospitable, unkind.  Then they would say, 'Though these members do belong to our family-let them alone.  Let us look after ourselves.  Let them die.  So long as I am comfortable, I am honoured, I am happy-this my brother-let him die.  If he be in misery let him remain in misery, so long as I am comfortable.  If he is hungry let him remain so; I am satisfied.  If he is without clothes, so long as I am clothed, let him remain as he is.  If he is shelterless, homeless, so long as I have a home, let him remain in the wilderness.'
"Such utter indifference in the human family is due to lack of control, to lack of a working law, to lack of kindness in its midst.  If kindness had been shown to the members of this family surely all the members thereof would have enjoyed comfort and happiness."1
"God is not partial and is no respecter of persons.  He has made provision for all.  The harvest comes forth for everyone.  The rain showers upon everybody and the heat of the sun is destined to warm everyone.  The verdure of the earth is for everyone.  Therefore there should be for all humanity the utmost happiness, the utmost comfort, the utmost well-being.
"But if conditions are such that some are happy and comfortable and some in misery; some are accumulating exorbitant wealth and others are in dire want-under such a system it is impossible for man to be happy and impossible for him to win the good pleasure of God.  God is kind to all.  The good pleasure of God consists in the welfare of all the individual members of mankind."2
The infinite design of universal brotherhood
"The purport is this that we are all inhabiting one globe of earth.  In reality we are one family and each one of us is a member of this family.  We must all be in the greatest happiness and
Page 118
comfort, under a just rule and regulation which is according to the good pleasure of God, thus causing us to be happy, for this life is fleeting."3
The selfish man is lower than the animal
"The man who thinks only of himself and is thoughtless of others is undoubtedly inferior to the animal because the animal is not possessed of the reasoning faculty.  The animal is excused; but in man there is reason, the faculty of justice, the faculty of mercifulness.  Possessing all these faculties he must not leave them unused.  He who is so hard-hearted as to think only of his own comfort, such a one will not be called man.
...
"We ask God to endow human souls with justice so that they may be fair, and may strive to provide for the comfort of all, that each member of humanity may pass his life in the utmost comfort and welfare.  Then this material world will become the very paradise of the Kingdom, this elemental earth will be in a heavenly state and all the servants of God will live in the utmost joy, happiness and gladness.  We must all strive and concentrate all our thoughts in order that such happiness may accrue to the world of humanity."1
"The solution begins with the village, and when the village is reconstructed, then the cities will be also.  The idea is this, that in each village will be erected a store-house.  In the language of Religion it is called the House of Finance.  That is a universal store-house, which is commenced in the village.  Its administration is through a committee of the wise ones of the community, and with the approval of that committee all the affairs are directed."2
The storehouse and the trust fund-its receipts and expenditures
"First, whatever contributions are necessary, they obtain from the bank at interest.  For instance, they borrow from the bank at three per cent and loan to the public at four per cent.  Any farmer who is in need of implements, they supply and give him all his necessities.  When the crop is harvested, it will be the first income (of the store-house).  The first revenue is this.  But this revenue is not equally distributed.  For instance, a person may have a crop of one thousand kilos and this is only sufficient for his wants and living.  From him nothing will be taken because he needs it all.  If something is taken from him, he will remain hungry.  But again, there may be one whose needs require one thousand kilos and his income is two thousand kilos.  From him one-tenth is taken.  Again, one needs two thousand kilos, but his income is ten thousand kilos.  From him two-tenths will be taken.  He needs two thousand kilos.  If two thousand are taken from him he still has six thousand remaining.  One has fifty thousand kilos, from him one-third is taken.  One may have ten thousand kilos expenses, but has one hundred thousand kilos income.  One-half is taken.  The greater the income, the greater is the ratio (of taxation).
"Second:  It is also the same with the cattle.  They take proportionately the revenue from the cattle.  For example, if a man has two cows necessary for his wants, nothing is taken from him.  The more he has, the more is taken from him.
Page 119
This is the second revenue.
"The third revenue of the store-house comes from one who dies without heirs.
"The fourth revenue comes from mines.  If a mine is found upon the land of a person, one-third of it belongs to him and the remainder to the store-house.
"The fifth revenue is hidden treasure.  If a person finds a hidden treasure (in the earth) he takes half of it, and the other half goes to the store-house.
"The sixth revenue.  If it (treasure) is found on the way, also half of it belongs to the store-house.
"The seventh revenue is voluntary contributions.  Of their own free will and with the utmost willingness, the people will give.
"These are the seven revenues, but there are seven fixed expenditures.
"The first expenditure:  The store-house ought to give one-tenth to the Government, to the public treasury for the public expenses.
"The second expenditure is for the poor.  The poor who are in need, those who are exempt, not those who are idle.  For instance, if a person's crop is burned or he has a loss in his business, and for this reason has become poor; these poor people are to be taken care of.
"Third:  The infirm, who come to want and cannot work.
"Fourth:  The orphans.  To them also help must be given.
"Fifth:  The schools.  The schools must be organized for the education of the children.
"Sixth:  For the deaf and blind.
"Seventh:  Public health.  Whatever is necessary for the public health must be arranged.  Swamps should be filled up, water should be brought in; whatever is necessary for the public health.
"If there is something left over (after these expenditures) it should be given to the Great House of Justice.  And thus there will be no want in the village.  The people will not remain hungry, they will not remain naked.  All will be in the utmost welfare and comfort."1
"The right of every human being to the daily bread whereby they exist, or the equalization of the means of livelihood.
"The arrangements of the circumstances of the people must be such that poverty shall disappear, that everyone, as far as possible, according to his rank and position, shall share in comfort and well-being."2
"A financier with colossal wealth should not exist whilst near him is a poor man in dire necessity.  When we see poverty allowed to reach a condition of starvation it is a sure sign that somewhere we shall find tyranny.  Men must bestir themselves in this matter, and no longer delay in altering conditions which bring the misery of grinding poverty to a very large number of the people.  The rich must give of their abundance, they must soften their hearts and cultivate a compassionate intelligence, taking thought for those sad ones who are suffering from lack of the very necessities of life."3
"Bahá'u'lláh has revealed principles and laws
Page 120
which will accomplish the adjustment of varying human capacities.  He has said that whatsoever is possible of accomplishment in human government will be effected through these principles.  When the laws he has instituted are carried out there will be no millionaires possible in the community and likewise no extremely poor.  This will be effected and regulated by adjusting the different degrees of human capacity.  The fundamental basis of the community is agriculture, tillage of the soil.  All must be producers."4
The principle of tax exemption
"But here is the real solution.  The rich should be merciful to the poor, but with their free-will, not with force.  Should it be with force it would be useless.  It should be according to law and not by violence, so that through a general law every one might know his duty.  For example, a rich person has a large income and a poor person a small income.  To put it in a more explicit way: a rich person in this case must be exempt from taxes.  If the poor person gives one-tenth of his income and the rich person one-tenth of his income, it will be unjust.  Thus in this way a law should be made that the poor person who has only ten kilos and needs them all for his necessary food, be exempt from paying taxes.  But if the rich person, who has ten thousand kilos, pays one-tenth or two-tenths taxes on his products, it will not be a hardship to him.  For example, if he gives two thousand kilos, he will still have eight thousand kilos.  If a person has fifty thousand kilos, even though he gives ten thousand kilos he will still have forty thousand kilos.  Therefore, laws must be made in this way.  These laws must do away with the present system of wages and earnings.  If today the owners of factories increase the wages of their employees, after a month or a year, they will again cry and strike and ask for more increase.  This work has no end."1
The farm community
"For example, the farmers plant near a village.  They get products from their cultivation.  They take one-tenth from the rich and the poor according to their income.  A general store may be built in that village for all the incomes and products to be brought therein.  Then it will be considered who is rich and who is poor.  The farmers whose incomes are sufficient only for their food and expenses must be free from paying taxes.  All products and incomes gathered and collected must be put in the general store.  If there is a helpless one in that village his daily needs must be given to him.  On the other hand a rich person who needs only fifty kilos of products and still have five hundred thousand kilos, after all his expenses are paid, should be taxed two-tenths and at the end of the year whatever remains in the store should be distributed for the general expenses."2
Protection for every class
"The seventh teaching [universal education] suggests a plan whereby all the individual members may enjoy the utmost comfort and welfare.  The degrees of
Page 121
society must be preserved.  The farmer will continue to till the soil, the artist pursue his art, the banker to finance the nation.  An army has need of its general, captain, and private soldiers.  The degrees varying with the pursuits are essential.  But in this Bahá'í plan there is no class hatred.  Each is to be protected and each individual member of the body politic is to live in the greatest comfort and happiness.  Work is to be provided for all and there will be no needy ones seen in the streets."3
"He [Bahá'u'lláh] has set forth the solution and provided the remedy for the economic question.  No religious Books of the past Prophets speak of this important human problem."4
"... Bahá'u'lláh set forth principles of guidance and teaching for economic readjustment.  Regulations were revealed by Him which ensure the welfare of the commonwealth.  As the rich man enjoys his life surrounded by ease and luxuries, so the poor man must, likewise, have a home and be provided with sustenance and comforts commensurate with his needs.  This readjustment of the social economy is of the greatest importance inasmuch as it ensures the stability of the world of humanity; and until it is effected, happiness and prosperity are impossible."5
Voluntary service by the wealthy-the true equality
"But in the divine teachings equality is brought about through a ready willingness to share.  It is commanded as regards wealth that the rich among the people, and the aristocrats should, by their own free will and for the sake of their own happiness, concern themselves with and care for the poor.  This equality is the result of the lofty characteristics and noble attributes of mankind."1
"One of the most important principles of the Teaching of Bahá'u'lláh is:
"The right of every human being to the daily bread whereby they exist, or the equalization of the means of livelihood.
"The arrangements of the circumstances of the people must be such that poverty shall disappear, that everyone, as far as possible, according to his rank and position, shall share in comfort and well-being.
"We see amongst us men who are overburdened with riches on the one hand, and on the other those unfortunate ones who starve with nothing; those who possess several stately palaces, and those who have not where to lay their head.  Some we find with numerous courses of costly and dainty food; whilst others can scarce find sufficient crusts to keep them alive.  Whilst some are clothed in velvets, furs and fine linen, others have insufficient, poor and thin garments with which to protect them from the cold.
"This condition of affairs is wrong, and must be remedied."2
Equality in capacity is impossible
"The remedy, however, cannot consist in the bringing to pass of equality, absolute equality among men; this would be impossible.  There is needed some organization which will bring about an order in this disorder.  Equality is a mere dream and absolutely impracticable.  If Equality existed the whole order of the world would be destroyed.  In mankind there is always a difference in degree.  Since creation men have never been the same.  Some have superior intelligence, others are more ordinary and some are devoid of intellect.  How can there ever exist equality between those who are clever and those who are not?  Humanity is like an army.  An army must have a general, captains and soldiers, each with their appointed duties; it cannot consist of generals only, or captains, or soldiers only-there must be degrees in the organization."3
Page 122
The tyranny of starvation
"Some are too rich, some are too poor, some have millions and some have nothing.  An organization is necessary to control this state of affairs.  It is necessary to limit riches or it is necessary to limit poverty.  Either extreme is wrong.  There should be a medium state.  If it is right for a capitalist to possess a great fortune, then it is also just that a workman should have means of existence.  If poverty is allowed to reach a condition of starvation, it proves that there is a tyranny.  Men must see that this does not happen in any case.  There must be special laws.  The rich must give of their plenty.  If they have more than they need they must think of those who are in want.
"The government of a country should make laws which conform to the Divine Law.  The Law of God exacts that there should be neither excessive wealth nor excessive poverty."4
Excessive wealth and excessive poverty alike are forbidden
"There is need of an equalization so that all may have an apportionment in the comforts of life.  For example, the wealthy man, whose table is adorned with all kinds of delicacies, must allow the poor to have at least his necessities.  It is not right that one should have all the delicacies and all foods on his table when another is in want of the necessities of life.  The rich must be merciful to the poor and out of their own willing hearts should they uplift them, they should not be forced.  There must be a readjustment and legislation which shall equalize conditions until humankind may have composure and rest with utmost ease."1
"O people of wealth and riches!  If you see a poor man suffering from any calamity, do not run away from him, but sit with him and ask him about the things heaped upon him from the seas of determination and predestination."2
Legislation essential
"The Bahá'í Cause covers all economic and social questions under the heading and ruling of its laws.  The essence of the Bahá'í spirit is that, in order to establish a better social order and economic condition, there must be allegiance to the laws and principles of government.  Under the laws which are to govern the world, the socialists may justly demand human rights but without resort to force and violence.  The governments will enact these laws, establishing just legislation and economics in order that all humanity may enjoy a full measure of welfare and privilege; but this will always be according to legal protection and procedure.  Without legislative administration, rights and demands fail, and the welfare of the commonwealth cannot be realized.  Today the method of demand is the strike and resort to force, which is manifestly wrong and destructive of human foundations.  Rightful privilege and demand must be set forth in laws and regulations."3
The cementing of the hearts through love
"While thousands are considering these questions, we have
Page 123
more essential purposes.  The fundamentals of the whole economic condition are divine in nature and are associated with the world of the heart and spirit.  This is fully explained in the Bahá'í teaching, and without knowledge of its principles no improvement in the economic state can be realized.  The Bahá'ís will bring about this improvement and betterment but not through sedition and appeal to physical force-not through warfare, but welfare.  Hearts must be so cemented together, love must become so dominant that the rich shall most willingly extend assistance to the poor and take steps to establish these economic adjustments permanently.  If it is accomplished in this way, it will be most praiseworthy because then it will be for the sake of God and in the pathway of His service.  For example, it will be as if the rich inhabitants of a city should say, 'It is neither just nor lawful that we should possess great wealth while there is abject poverty in this community,' and then willingly give their wealth to the poor, retaining only as much as will enable them to live comfortably."4
"... man should know his own self and recognize that which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement, wealth or poverty.  Having attained the stage of fulfilment and reached his maturity, man standeth in need of wealth, and such wealth as he acquireth through crafts or professions is commendable and praiseworthy in the estimation of men of wisdom, and especially in the eyes of servants who dedicate themselves to the education of the world and to the edification of its peoples.  They are, in truth, cup-bearers of the life-giving water of knowledge and guides unto the ideal way.  They direct the peoples of the world to the straight path and acquaint them with that which is conducive to human upliftment and exaltation."1
Wages and a share of the profits to employees
"For instance, the manufacturers and the industrialists heap up a treasure each day, and the poor artisans do not gain their daily sustenance:  that is the height of iniquity, and no just man can accept it.  Therefore, laws and regulations should be established which would permit the workmen to receive from the factory owner their wages and a share in the fourth or the fifth part of the profits, according to the capacity of the factory; or in some other way the body of workmen and the manufacturers should share equitably the profits and advantages.  Indeed, the capital and management come from the owner of the factory, and the work and labour, from the body of the workmen.  Either the workmen should receive wages which assure them an adequate support and, when they cease work, becoming feeble or helpless, they should have sufficient benefits from the income of the industry; or the wages should be high enough to satisfy the workmen with the amount they receive so that they may themselves be able to put a little aside for days of want and helplessness."2
"Good God!  Is it possible that, seeing one of his fellow-creatures starving, destitute of everything, a man can rest and live comfortably in his luxurious mansion?  He who meets another in the greatest misery, can he enjoy his fortune?  That
Page 124
is why, in the Religion of God, it is prescribed and established that wealthy men each year give over a certain part of their fortune for the maintenance of the poor and unfortunate.  That is the foundation of the Religion of God and is binding upon all.
"And as man in this way is not forced nor obliged by the government, but is by the natural tendency of his good heart voluntarily and radiantly showing benevolence toward the poor, such a deed is much praised, approved and pleasing.
"Such is the meaning of the good works in the Divine Books and Tablets."3
An international assembly should concur on a wise and moderate law for the protection of both employers and employees
"Now I want to tell you about the law of God.  According to the divine law, employees should not be paid merely by wages.  Nay, rather they should be partners in every work.  The question of socialization is very difficult.  It will not be solved by strikes for wages.  All the governments of the world must be united, and organize an assembly, the members of which shall be elected from the parliaments and the noble ones of the nations.  These must plan with wisdom and power, so that neither the capitalists suffer enormous losses, nor the labourers become needy.  In the utmost moderation they should make the law, then announce to the public that the rights of the working people are to be effectively preserved; also the rights of the capitalists are to be protected.  When such a general law is adopted, by the will of both sides, should a strike occur, all the governments of the world should collectively resist it.  Otherwise the work will lead to much destruction, especially in Europe.  Terrible things will take place."4
How to procure sincerity and efficiency among the workers
"For instance, the owners of properties, mines and factories should share their incomes with their employees and give a fairly certain percentage of their products to their workingmen in order that the employees may receive, beside their wages, some of the general income of the factory so that the employee may strive with his soul in the work.
"No more trusts will remain in the future.  The question of the trusts will be wiped away entirely.  Also, every factory that has ten thousand shares will give two thousand shares of these ten thousand to its employees and will write the shares in their names, so that they may have them, and the rest will belong to the capitalists.  Then at the end of the month or year whatever they may earn after the expenses and wages are paid, according to the number of shares, should be divided among both.  In reality, so far great injustice has befallen the common people.  Laws must be made because it is impossible for the labourers to be satisfied with the present system.  They will strike every month and every year.  Finally, the capitalists will lose.  In ancient times a strike occurred among the Turkish soldiers.  They said to the government:  'Our wages are very small and they should be increased.'  The govern-
Page 125
ment was forced to give them their demands.  Shortly afterwards they struck again.  Finally all the incomes went to the pockets of the soldiers to the extent that they killed the king, saying:  'Why didst thou not increase the income so that we might have received more?'"1
The message of love, peace and unity for our social and economic life
The above quotations are but a few of those that might be adduced from the writings and discourses of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, if space permitted, directly applicable to this intimate study of human relationships.  We have, however, had to rest content with these basic extracts from a source whose every utterance is a call to humanity's inmost reality; a message of love, peace, and unity for the race; a universal diagnosis and prescription.  The true physician penetrates the veil of symptoms into the field of causation.  Likewise, when he finds the body overcome with a complication of diseases, he is not concerned with one disordered function only, but seeks the remote cause that has also affected or infected the other organs.  The dawn of its maturity has come upon the race.  The playthings and crass ignorance of childhood days have been set aside.  The newly understood unity of science and religion calls for the adaptation of scientific principles to our economic life.  These principles, being essentially divine, cannot conflict with the fundamental religious foundation which is the love of God and of mankind, (which Christ defined as both "the law and the prophets" and the knowledge of God, the eternal search for which is the revealer of science and heavenly mysteries.  It is the lack of this love, and ignorance of this knowledge that the Wise Physician has declared to be the primary cause of man's present turmoil and ravaging illness.
A new economic axiom
The introduction of the trust principle, i.e. that the poor are a divine trust, possessing certain rights as contrasted with mere charity, establishes a new economic axiom:  That every human being, who is willing to work, is entitled, as of right, to the necessities of life.  Since the Creator has made sufficient provision for all, and has deposited in the earth the elements essential to the production of food and shelter, it is no longer allowable that any man should starve or be without the means of existence.  Man, generically speaking, is a beneficiary of the bountiful trust confided to nature by the Lord of men.  More than this, he is, in the sight of God, a beneficiary of the soul impulses of his fellow men.  If a beneficiary, he is entitled to a share in the proceeds of this trust endowment.  In his turn, he must contribute to the general enrichment through his labour, art or calling, and be not found wanting in this.
War expenditures doomed by the new world order
The governments and communities must make work available when ordinary means fail.  Relieved of the enormous burden of war expenditures, which will surely come to pass, the internal adjustments of a people will be subjected to a far deeper scrutiny than has yet been possible, and the surplus wealth of governments and general co-operative contributions
Page 126
alike devoted to the constructive up building of the New Order.
A new emphasis upon the evolvement of individual destinies
Poor houses, and pauperism, would be erased from the picture.  The millions of underfed and under developed, now deprived of normal development both of body and soul, will find transformation through attaining to their destined place in the organic life.  The innate qualities of growing children will be lovingly and carefully studied by a new type of teacher, so that the God given talents may be early ascertained, and the divers capacities encouraged and led to their special goal of service.  New knowledge and new scientific means of determining the innate capacity of a soul will be uncovered.  Poor bankers will no longer be made out of good mechanics; and boys and girls who love the soil and the sweet tang of country air will not, for lack of this knowledge, find themselves in a clerical position.  The inner realities of human beings will tend to a greater revealment for the abundance they attract.
The right to the necessities of life
The second important change in our social structure is the principle of mutual assistance.  This has already been referred to as the right to necessities.  A farmer whose crop is ruined by forces beyond his control, a widow with young children, a cripple unable to work, a worker ill and without means, an orphan lacking kind relatives, an unemployed though willing and self respecting worker or artisan, all these and a hundred other types of misfortune that are daily encountered, are protected under this plan from the loss of self respect, or from sinking into criminality, or from the humiliation of poor relief and the cognomen1 of pauper.  These possess a right to share in the abundance of their common mother, earth.  God does not withhold from such His rain and sunshine.  The children of men must not withhold from their neighbours and brothers of the race, these rights which the Mercy of God bestows, nor classify them as outcasts.  Under this system, a man can, with head up and eyes unashamed, reveal to his village House of Justice his needs, his woes, his hopes, and be conscious that, in so doing, he is but receiving what is due him as a child of God.  His need is usually but temporary and let it not be supposed that the vast majority of mankind fall short in self respect.  He offers to work, and work is given, but his crushing temporary burden of debt and anxiety has been lifted, and he breathes a prayer of thanksgiving for this evidence of Divine Providence among his fellow men.  A year hence he may be contributing to the funds of the common storehouse.  The new consciousness that will be built through experiences like these, will enrich humanity for the bars of individual and isolated selfishness have been rent asunder; the sharp claws of nature have been clipped.
A new principle of taxation
Two sweeping changes appear.  One is limitation upon the taxing power; and, by the same token, an expansion of that power.  In the first case, the power of the community or government to tax would come into being only when the income of
Page 127
the citizen exceeds his actual necessary expenses.  Up to that point, he is exempt, since to tax him would be an act of tyranny, in that it would automatically deprive him of at least a portion of his necessities, thus defeating the essential purpose.  This is a new principle in taxation.
The expansion of the tax power, however, as it would apply to the incomes in the higher levels, is not a new principle, at least in certain western countries.  The graduated income tax has become almost a tradition.  The tithe, moreover, has a most ancient inheritance, even to the days of Melchizedek, King of Salem, to whom the patriarch and prophet Abraham rendered the tithe.  Originally the rights of God-the tithe, through this new and merciful command, becomes the means of succour to the unfortunate, as well as the salvation of the state.
When we speak of the tithe or income tax under the Bahá'í plan the meaning is an inclusive one.  In most countries today where the income tax is in effect, enormous holdings of tax exempt securities are in the hands of the people and no revenue is derived from the holders in respect to the actual income from these intangibles.  This is inconsistent with the just application of the spiritual and universal principle involved in the income tax as set forth in the Bahá'í writings.  Not only tax exempt securities but a vast quantity of other intangible personal property, upon which taxes should rightly be paid at present, escape these levies.  In one great commonwealth or state of America, the Tax Commissioner estimated that while the State was receiving taxes on approximately three billion dollars worth of real estate, there was at least nine billion more of intangibles escaping or exempted from taxation.  This was before the income tax was enacted.  What proportion of the taxable property of this particular state still escapes taxation under the income tax statute is not accurately known, but there can be no question that it is very large.  It follows that a system of income taxation imposed under the high spiritual standards which have been stated as flowing from the Bahá'í plan, would greatly benefit the community, would equalize and perhaps minimize the rate or percentage of taxation now necessary under the partial application of the law, and would, above all, spread the tax into those areas hitherto untouched, whose responsibilities have had to be assumed by the middle classes of wage earners, professionals and businessmen.  The fact that since the inauguration of income taxes, the volume of tax exempt securities has grown to an enormous extent, lends added emphasis to the need of the introduction of an impartial and universal system under which all income producing property be disclosed and assessed.  Applying such a principle, the right of states or nations to issue tax exempt intangibles must be subjected to the closest scrutiny.  The principles of interdependence and co-operation cannot admit of any indirect evasion which results in laying upon any class or level of income a burden greater than justice permits.
In this plan, however, emphasis is laid upon the preservation of the right of individual initiative, capacity, and private ownership.  Whatever expansion the taxing power achieves, it will always fall short, substantially short of confiscation.  An abundant residue is retained by the wealthy man who has generously contributed to the welfare of the commonwealth, and his initiative
Page 128
is never deprived of its reward.  Nevertheless, through his recognition of his innate relationship with the living organism of his community, he has furnished that co-operation and reciprocal help that the organic life requires for its health and well being.  For example, the brain demands and receives the largest volume of blood, in the entire circulation of the body.  For this, it renders the most vital and commanding service.  Similarly, those in the high places of the tower of humanity, must reciprocate.
Capitalists and socialists meet at the balanced point of moderation
And here, I believe, we will hear the "well done" of the socialist.  Capital, so long entrenched, will, under this plan, step into its true place in the economic organism.  It will have taken a long step toward the middle position, the path of moderation.  Socialism, which is essentially a justified protest against the hardships of the present economic system, likewise, will advance toward that greatly to be desired equilibrium-and the two contending theories of social and industrial life find union in their common sacrifices.  The principle of individual ownership and initiative, the degrees of capacity and service have been maintained, and on the other hand, the recognition of a common humanity, organic co-operation, and the rights of all men, have been subserved and instituted.  Meditate upon this divinely practical and practically divine plan, ye who are at present full of fear of the future, and ye who have become almost disheartened and discouraged over the intractable abyss that has separated you from your brothers!  Adopt this plan and invite the warming life giving forces of composition, health and happiness, for this is one picture of human unity and mutuality.
The dole
In the face of this system, the dole loses its appeal and fades away to nothingness.  The plan, through which a nation, or state virtually chloroforms its unemployed into quiescence by opening its treasury to weekly unearned stipends, is both faulty and dangerous.  It is only another symptom of social disorder.  Ignoring the law of work and self respect, the dole is an artificial political remedy with reactionary final results.  Outside the law of compensation for services rendered, it cannot be regarded as a permanent or effective means of solving this all embracing problem.  The principle involved differs widely from that herein set forth, which affirms the sacredness and essentiality of work, and provision for work.  Although seemingly parallel to the Bahá'í plan, in providing means from the public treasury to those in need or unfortunate, the parallelism fades because the basis upon which aid is given is, in the one case, based upon charity, and in the other, upon right.  Moreover, the dole deals mainly with unemployment, while this plan covers the entire field of misfortune.  The dole is the extended hand of the state to its unemployed, needy ones, but it does not confer employment.  The hand of labour is nerveless, for lack of available work.  No service appears, to balance the payment.  More basically, the need and excuse for the dole is brought about by the existence of the very disorders in our
Page 129
general economic life, which are alone responsible for these terrific fluctuations in the demand and supply of labour, these recurring industrial depressions whose cure depends upon the administration of all the ingredients of the divine prescription, not one only.  While the dole is a gesture along the line of least resistance, to quiet a threatened revolutionary impulse on the part of the hungry and destitute, it is admittedly ineffective in any permanent sense.  That prosperity which in current parlance is always "just around the corner" if too long delayed, will come too late to preserve the financial integrity of a state weakened and emasculated by the employment of a purely artificial device as a substitute for employment.  We readily admit that in the present state of the economic consciousness, some such method was inevitable.  We are not criticizing those who invented the dole.  No other avenue was at hand.  We are, however, criticizing the hit or miss system which made it necessary.  The new consciousness of man's real organic life, which sees the material and spiritual civilizations indissolubly joined, which rejects and denies the right of purely material interests to dominate, any longer, the destinies of mankind, will insist upon the establishment of the balance.  Material and selfish interests have deprived this organic body of its soul, notwithstanding that the body without the soul is as a lamp lacking both oil and light.  To join these once more together is as 'Abdu'l-Bahá expressed it-"light upon light".  The day of overweening material dominion is swiftly passing.  Love and brotherhood will attract and establish the spiritual elements of civilization side by side with our material necessities.
The challenging statistics of depression
In the industrial depression of 1920-21, the wages of workers in the United States were cut approximately 23%, but dividends decreased but 3%, while at the same time interest paid on investments increased $71,000,000.  In this current depression, 1930 -31, the aggregate wages paid in 1930 diminished to the extent of $9,600,000,000, while during the same period, astonishing to relate, interest payments and dividends rose from the 1929 figures of $7,500,000,000 to a total of $8,000,000,000.  This is stated on the authority of a recent article in Collier's, by Mr Owen P. White.  These figures, if accurate, disclose the protection which employers in industry accord themselves in troublous times, and illustrate the fact that the worker, discharged or on half time, pays the real price of the depression, and is, in effect, its principal victim.  It is fair to assume, as well, that the use of labour saving machinery, without regard to the just interests of labour, has played a substantial part in this inequality of distribution of the earnings of industry.  No more concrete example of the doctrine of living "unto oneself" need be adduced than these amazing statistics.  This is the direct application of the theory of separation, and the denial of organic reciprocity.
Unemployment reserves
Now, in paying out these huge sums to stockholders and investors during depressed periods, it must be assumed that industry at least to some
Page 130
extent, drew upon corporate reserves accumulated in more prosperous years.  The author of the article referred to, cites several illuminating facts on this subject, and applies the existence of such reserve funds directly to the subject of unemployment reserve insurance.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, in one of His discourses on the matter of profit sharing, says that other means of alleviating the lack of work should also be employed.  In good business years, this unemployment reserve plan has built up, in several major instances in America, a solvent fund which, in the present crisis, has operated to keep the unemployed workers from these factories from the bread lines.  Three per cent of the payroll was set aside in this fund by the employers, one and one-half per cent by the employees, during the favourable years, and from this, during the existing depression, thirty per cent of full time wages was paid each entitled worker.  Were this system allowed to operate during a reasonably long term of favourable years, it would undoubtedly accumulate, through investment and interest, to a point enabling an even larger percentage of normal earnings to be paid in the time of need.  But as Mr White points out, this thirty per cent has preserved the self respect of these workers, and is the best argument against the dole, or even the charitable community chest.
Another large and well known corporation, which put this system in operation in 1915, found the accumulation, in 1930, warranted a payment to its unemployed workers, with dependents, of eighty per cent of their normal wage, and sixty per cent to those without dependents.  Numerous other examples are cited, in which large, fore sighted corporations have installed this beneficent plan.  These reserve funds must always remain solvent, and in case of unduly protracted periods of unemployment, the depletion of the fund would terminate its benefits until it again became solvent.  This constructive and humane plan is an example of what unemployment insurance can accomplish.  Stabilization in industry is an attainable goal once the minds and hearts of employers are opened to the influx of the spirit of the age.  Every such measure will surely attract the divine confirmation.
The love of God
In one of His Tablets Bahá'u'lláh says:
"The fear of God hath ever been the prime factor in the education of His creatures.  Well is it with them that have attained thereunto!"1
"The fear of God hath ever been a sure defence and a safe stronghold for all the peoples of the world.  It is the chief cause of the protection of mankind, and the supreme instrument for its preservation."1
"Religion is, verily, the chief instrument for the establishment of order in the world, and of tranquillity amongst its peoples.  The weakening of the pillars of religion hath strengthened the foolish, and emboldened them, and made them more arrogant.  Verily I say:  The greater the decline of religion, the more grievous the waywardness of the ungodly.  This cannot but lead in the end to chaos and confusion."2
These statements of reality penetrate to the innermost heart of our problem.  In this sense, "religion" is used as identical with the divine foundations revealed by the Prophets in all ages, as contrasted
Page 131
with the religions systems later established by human agencies.  "Religions are many, but the reality of religion is one."3  [This statement] is a divine utterance furnishing the key.
Deeds show the station of the man
There is but one way a man can show his love for God, and that is the degree of his service to his fellow men.  As it is written:  "Deeds show the station of the man" for all are partners in mere words.  It is the practical application of this truth in the field of industry and within the social structure of humanity that will rout the decompositional process just now so firmly fastened upon us all.  A deepening consciousness of man as the most sacred of all created organisms, and the destruction of the superstitious, imaginary, false belief that he is individually independent and inorganic, is essential.  Herein, the educators of mankind must play a leading part.  While true consciousness is the light of heart and soul, the education of the mind is a pathway thereto.  The new education will guide and illumine this path, and will be a powerful aid to this end in the very near future.
Fear, one of nature's most satanic forces, is powerless before love and faith
The eradication of fear, which holds the most of humanity in a grip more relentless than death, itself, and is, alas, only too well founded, in view of the unrestrained and selfish disregard of the rights of men by those who at present control the means of livelihood-can be accomplished only by the adoption of the balanced principle of moderation we have endeavoured to set forth.  By the eradication of fear, Bahá'u'lláh says "the very nature of man will be changed".  Fear, an inheritance of the animal world, is, like darkness, a manifestation of the sinister, negative power of Nature.  When hope and happiness arise side by side with it, it vanishes, even as darkness is found to be non existent when the light shines.  The economic gloom of today nourishes and vitalizes fear to the nth power.  What is this fear that blights the countenances of millions of men with its livid and ghastly infection?  It is the fear of pauperized old age; of closed doors of opportunity while the wolf crouches upon the doorstep of the workman's cottage; of the widow with little ones wending her way disconsolately to the office of the Poor Relief; of the unemployed worker turned away again and again from the door of factory and shop; of the wounded and maimed returned from the wars; of the hard toiling farmer whose crops Nature has blighted in a single night, or upon whose fields swarms of insects have descended, raised up perchance by this very disorder that flourishes in our social structure; of the cripple who looks forward only to a lifetime of dependency; of the fifty year old worker denied the right to give of his strength and experience; yes, of the business man oppressed with anxieties as his books reveal the red ink entries of deficit.
Because of this fear, because of impending bankruptcies and the fancied loss of financial standing, how many suicides are recorded as the iron wheels of industry turn day by day?  Visualize, if you may, the faces of countless thousands of the children of men, by which I mean
Page 132
men and women, endowed as are all humanity with heart, soul and mind, white and drawn, in whose lineaments the cruel knife of fear and anxiety has carved deep and ineradicable furrows.  The juggernaut of a feverish and unrestrained industrial machine has turned these children of an all loving Father into unrecognizable shadows of their true humanity.  The claws of Nature have sunk deep into their vitals, numbing the finer forces, preventing the achievement of the divine destines they might have attained.  In truth, have we surrendered to the natural law of the survival of the fittest, the "supreme affliction".  Indifference worse than hate itself, the shame of Cain flaunting itself in the face of the Divine Command to keep and cherish his brother, selfish greed that seizes the results of toil-are these not the insignia of man's degradation, of the terrible forces of decomposition hovering ever nearer to the scene of final dissolution?  These agonies and this truly satanic condition are not of God, for they are blind, unintelligent, unloving, while He is the Seer, the Knower, the Loving.  His Love has poured forth in this New Time, His favour to the poor and oppressed is evident.  In the sight of God, man has no justification for longer living unto himself alone.  Nor can he find excuse in pleading "human nature" in this light.  For this disorder is not of human origin.  Rather is it of a world lower than the animal.  This is because man has been endowed with a power to know the Divine, while the animal does not possess that power.  Man is responsible, the animal is not responsible since it has no means of knowing God.
Humanity bows before a usurping sovereignty
Indeed, Nature herself, is "uninformed of God, the Almighty".  By surrendering, therefore, to the natural law, humanity has accepted the sovereignty of a blind and unintelligent force.  Reflect, then, upon this word from Bahá'u'lláh:
"O SON OF SPIRIT!
"I created thee rich, why dost thou bring thyself down to poverty?  Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase thyself?  Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone beside Me?  Out of the clay of love I moulded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with another?  Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting."1
This moving appeal is directed to the slumbering spiritual consciousness of humanity, to that capacity within with which the world of nature has no part, to the human reality itself, a reality that transcends Nature and is destined to achieve sovereignty over her, even as today she has been permitted to usurp sovereignty over a being superior to her both intrinsically and innately.  Ignorance of this supreme fact has humbled and retarded the race.  But the hour has arrived when this tyranny is to be conquered.  Happy are they who awaken to the divine gifts of nobility, spiritual wealth, knowledge, and love that have been deposited within them, and gird up their loins to enlist in the army that is gathering to carry the last and strongest redoubt in Nature's dark citadel.


XXIII:6, September 1932
page 179
White roses of Persia
Part II
Martha L. Root
This is the second instalment in the series relating the story of the martyrdom of Varqá, the Persian Bahá'í.  In the first part the author gave a summary of Varqá's family history including copies of the Tablets (letters) of Bahá'u'lláh addressed to them.
The great visit in 'Akká came to an end and the little group started for Tabríz.  On the way they went by Mazra'ih, near 'Akká to visit the grave of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá's father; for years before his father, Hájí Mullá Mihdí, with the latter's two sons, one of whom was 'Alí, had started to visit Bahá'u'lláh in the great Prison in 'Akká.  They had walked the long distance from Persia, but the journey was too hard and Hájí Mihdí had died here in Mazra'ih so near to his heart's destination, 'Akká, which place he never reached.  The others had gone on to see Bahá'u'lláh.  So the reader will see that 'Alí Muhammad Varqá had had the great bounty to visit Bahá'u'lláh when he himself was still a boy.  It is no wonder then that he had come again and brought his little sons.  They prayed at the grave of Mr Varqá's father, and they remembered with thankfulness that Bahá'u'lláh Himself had come several times to that tomb in Mazra'ih to pray for their beloved relative.
When they were home again in Tabríz matters did not go quite smoothly.  'Alí Muhammad's wife's mother was very much against the Bahá'í Cause.  She instigated one of their servants, brought up in the home from childhood, to kill her son-in-law.  Secretly, however, the servant was a Bahá'í, so he went and told his master to leave the house, because if he stayed the mother-in-law would certainly get some one else to put her son-in-law to death.  So 'Alí Muhammad Varqá left home and went to stay with a Bahá'í believer.  His mother-in-law went to the Mullá and asked him to give an order that her son-in-law might be killed because he was a Bahá'í.  The Mullá replied, "He has not confessed to me that he is a believer, I cannot condemn him.  If you can prove to me that he is a Bahá'í, I could issue a death verdict against him."
So the grandmother took little Rúhu'lláh with her to see this Mullá.  Rúhu'lláh used to speak to everybody and he was a celebrated little teacher.  His grandmother told him she was taking him to the home of a friend of his father and that their host was a Bahá'í.  So when the child went in he held out his little hand and said:  "Allah'u'Abha!"  The Mullá was astonished at such a salutation, but the grandmother made a sign to him not to say anything.  She asked Rúhu'lláh to pray some of his Bahá'í prayers which his father had taught him.  The child at once prayed the daily prayer and then he prayed a long one, one of the most deep and beautiful prayers ever revealed by Bahá'u'lláh.  After the little boy had finished the Mullá said:  "Those prayers are wonderful, no father should be put to death who has trained a child like this one!" and he refused to issue a verdict for the death of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá,
Page 180
Rúhu'lláh's grandmother on his father's side of the house was very different.  Her husband had had a Bahá'í teacher come to speak with her (which he did without seeing her, for she sat behind a curtain to receive her lessons).  When she heard about the Bahá'í Cause and that a Prophet had appeared she said, "We are not waiting for a Prophet; I have studied all the Books, and we are waiting for a Manifestation of God."  The teacher had used the word "Prophet" so as not to startle her, but to try to tell her gradually that the great World Teacher was here, but she was an apt pupil and more ready than he thought to receive the Truth.  She at once became a believer.
__________
One day in Tabríz, a group of distinguished Bahá'ís were speaking together about who would be the successor of Bahá'u'lláh.  'Alí Muhammad Varqá said it would be 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Another said it would be the secretary and a third held the opinion that it would be Muhammad 'Alí, another son.  'Alí Muhammad Varqá said, "Bahá'u'lláh has stated that if there is anything which we do not understand we should write to Him," so he sent a petition asking this question.  Bahá'u'lláh at once wrote back saying that it would be 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  'Azízu'lláh Varqá has this Tablet.
Then 'Alí Muhammad Varqá wrote a second letter to Bahá'u'lláh asking that not only he but that one of his sons might be a martyr in the path of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Greatest Branch.  Bahá'u'lláh replied to this petition and accepted their sacrifice, which means that they could become martyrs.  The family moved about from place to place because he was a Bahá'í teacher and travelled throughout Persia.
Once, when the times were very dangerous a lovely Bahá'í woman near Tihrán took 'Azízu'lláh and Rúhu'lláh into her own home to try to protect them.  This was when the Varqá family was living in Tihrán.  The husband of the Bahá'í, who was not a believer, though he was a celebrated lawyer and a great statesman, objected to having the children in the house.  He said:  "You cannot do this, we too, shall be killed."
His wife replied:  "Let me ask you something.  If a man has been a butcher for forty years and in a dark night some one gives him a dog to kill instead of a lamb, do you think he would make a mistake and kill the dog instead of the lamb?"  Her husband said, "No."  Then she answered:  "Be assured you will not be murdered instead of a Bahá'í."  She kept the children for several weeks and during that time nothing happened to any of them.
'Alí Muhammad Varqá took his two children, 'Azízu'lláh Varqá, who was thirteen years old, and Rúhu'lláh Varqá who was eleven, and went again to 'Akká in 1895 to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  (Bahá'u'lláh had passed on in 1892.)  Valíyu'lláh Varqá the youngest child was left at home.  There were many happy incidents during the days spent with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but I wish to relate one which though not quite so pleasant at the moment, reveals 'Abdu'l-Bahá's great character, the quickness of a father to obey and the wisdom of little Rúhu'lláh.
A large group of Bahá'í children
Page 181
were playing together when one little boy uttered a naughty word; Rúhu'lláh quickly slapped him on the mouth saying he deserved punishment.  This child who had said the word was the son of a great martyr and since he had come to 'Akká he had been very favoured by the Holy Family and all the believers.  The other children marched in a body with this little boy to tell Rúhu'lláh's father and to complain about this matter.  Rúhu'lláh, when he saw them going, ran into the court and up the prison stairs, through the open door into 'Abdu'l-Bahá's room and sat down close beside Him.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was by the window writing Tablets.  As soon as 'Alí Muhammad Varqá heard the children's story he started out to find his son.  Going into the court, he saw Rúhu'lláh sitting beside 'Abdu'l-Bahá upstairs near the window.  He motioned him to come down.  Rúhu'lláh was vigorously nodding "no", and 'Abdu'l-Bahá attracted by this motion said, "Why are you nodding out the window?"  Then Rúhu'lláh related the whole story of how he had slapped the little boy on the mouth and said he knew if he went down to the court his father was going to punish him.  'Abdu'l-Bahá called the father to come upstairs and said very sternly:  "No one must say anything to Rúhu'lláh about this matter!"  Usually 'Abdu'l-Bahá was very careful that children must obey their parents, but He repeated it a second time:  "No one must say anything to Rúhu'lláh about this matter!"  From that time on 'Alí Muhammad was very respectful to his little son Rúhu'lláh and he never again reproved him for anything.  He was a good father and Rúhu'lláh was a good son; he never consciously did wrong.
'Abdu'l-Bahá during this visit gave Rúhu'lláh the title "muballiq"-which means "a teacher of religion" a Bahá'í teacher.  When the family returned to Persia they went to live in Zanján which is situated in the northern province of Ádhirbáyján.  The father, 'Alí Muhammad Varqá, wrote to 'Abdu'l-Bahá from Zanján and Rúhu'lláh who was continuing diligently his study of Persian writing, sent two lines of copy for 'Abdu'l-Bahá to see what progress he had made.  When the answer came to the father's letter, there was a Tablet enclosed for Rúhu'lláh who at that time was eleven years old.  The Tablet was in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's own handwriting and was as follows:
"He is the Most Glorious!
"O thou who art nearer to the sucking age!  The impression of the musk like writing of that sign of the Love of God (Rúhu'lláh) was seen.  Verily, in a short time thou hast improved greatly, and seeing this great progress is the cause of my joy and happiness.  Certainly thou must try thy utmost that thy writing may become better day by day and in the world of writing it may become the glory and the bounty of the Supreme Pen!
"Always I must hear from thee, and thou must describe and explain about those whom thou dost teach (spiritually).  Upon thee be Bahá!"  Signed:  'Ayn-'Ayn1
When 'Alí Muhammad Varqá read this Tablet, with great reverence and solemnity he knelt with forehead to the floor and said:  "This is the son who will give his life as promised by Bahá'u'lláh, because a pen of wood could not have such an effect, the effect of the Supreme Pen would be the mighty pen of martyrdom."
(To be continued)


XXIII:7, October 1932
page 202
Bahá'íyyih Khánum-an appreciation
Ella Goodall Cooper
The author, a loyal Bahá'í for many years-one of the pioneers of the Bahá'í Cause in this country has made visits to the Holy Land, (several times accompanied by her mother, Mrs Helen S. Goodall) and is numbered among the very first American pilgrims to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  She has had advantages which enable her to draw a fine pen picture of the noble and saintly sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá who was known as the Greatest Holy Leaf.  This is a story which will be dear to the heart of every Bahá'í.
It is now thirty-three years since that never to be forgotten first pilgrimage to the Most Great Prison2 was undertaken by a group of believers from the West and, while many details of the visit have faded into the background, there are certain events and personalities that remain clear and vivid in my memory, and which time seems powerless to efface.  Next to meeting the Beloved Master Himself3 was the privilege of meeting His glorious sister, Bahá'íyyih Khánum, known as the Greatest Holy Leaf.  Her personality is indelibly imprinted upon my memory.  Tall, slender and of noble bearing, her body gave the impression of perfect poise between energy and tranquillity, between wiry endurance and inward composure, imparting to the beholder a sense of security, comfort and reliance, impossible to describe.
Her beautiful face was the feminine counterpart of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's the lines of suffering and privation softened by the patient sweetness of the mouth; the dominating brow, bespeaking intellect and will, lighted by the wonderful understanding eyes, in form like those of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but deep blue rather than hazel.  Watching their expressive changes-as one moment they darkened with sympathy or pain, the next moment sparkled with laughter and humour only served to deepen the impression of her irresistible spiritual attraction.
__________
The ladies of the blessed family eagerly explained to us the loftiness of her spiritual station, which we instantly felt but could not analyze.  They told us that Bahá'u'lláh had written for her a precious Tablet (letter) in which He had stated that so great was her spiritual attainment that her prayers would always be accepted at the Throne of God, and that her supplications and interventions for others would never fail to be answered.  Thus she was set apart as the purest and most saintly of women, and through her He glorified the position of woman in this New Day.  All this was recognized by the maidservants, whether wise or simple, high or low.  It was touching to witness their humble homage, scarcely less than that accorded 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself as, reverently touching her shoulder with lips and forehead, they would beg her to supplicate at the Holy Threshold in their behalf, the while their tears fell like rain.
Small wonder that such a strong
Page 203
yet gentle quality of authority made her naturally the head of the household group that circled about 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  She presided over the room called Ladies Room which was the centre for all family gatherings, and where the women visitors were entertained.  From the hour of the early morning tea, at which 'Abdu'l-Bahá was often present, to the last good night, whispered by some weary yet grateful traveller, Khánum (as she was affectionately called) was ever in demand.  During the long day, which began before six in the morning and rarely ended before eleven or twelve at night, there were frequent spontaneous gatherings in this general room, and save for the brief midday siesta, this association with the women constituted the only variation in the monotony of their prison lives.  The spiritual peace and joy pervading these simple meetings was a new and unbelievable experience to us-the Western pilgrims.
The chanting of the sacred tablets by the Persian ladies, at the request of the Greatest Holy Leaf (who had thus made them happy) the murmur of low voices as news, generally tragic, was imparted, the bubbling of the friendly samovar as tea was handed around by the young serving maids, and, above all, the impalpable yet vibrant atmosphere of love and service made these meetings attract all including the children-Shoghi Effendi among them, who slipped in for a little while and knelt quietly to listen.  Even the birds seemed to feel the friendly spirit for they flew freely in and out through the open door leading to the court which was open to the sky.
__________
The Greatest Holy Leaf was also custodian of the spiritual treasures of the family-they had no material riches-such as the sacred Writings of Bahá'u'lláh and other revered relics belonging to Him and to some of the lamented martyrs.  Under her care were the precious attar of rose, symbolizing the "fragrance of the Love of God", the favourite perfume of Bahá'u'lláh, the collection of gold rings, set with stones of carnelian carved with the Greatest Name, the devout handiwork of the poor Bahá'ís of Persia, who sent them to Khánum to be given to the pilgrims or new believers, at her own discretion.
Her authority, so real yet so humble, was instinctively accepted by the family of the Master, who sought her wise and loving counsel upon every occasion.  In this way all co-operated to save the time and strength of 'Abdu'l-Bahá Whose life must be given to the service of all mankind, as they well realized.  Even the believers of other lands, having come to know of her power through the accounts of the early pilgrims, have been wont to write her of their problems and beg her prayers at the Holy Shrines.  And although she neither spoke nor wrote English, yet her influence, subtle and beneficent, has penetrated even to the far West, bringing courage and assurance to many a distressed soul.
__________
During a later pilgrimage to 'Akká, when I accompanied my mother, we were privileged to
Page 204
view another aspect of the life of Bahá'íyyih Khánum.  Having in mind the first picture of her purely spiritual activity, we found her life, like a finely cut gem, had many facets, some of which we were yet to know.  It happened that there were many Eastern pilgrims to be cared for and, consequently we had little opportunity of seeing Khánum, whose time was fully occupied with household tasks.
One day we caught a glimpse of her in the kitchen seated on a low stool, her firm, capable hands busy with a large lamb that had just been brought in from the market.  Quickly dividing it, she directed which part was to be made into broth, which part served for the evening meal, which part kept for the morrow, and which sent to those poor or incapacitated friends who were daily supplied from 'Abdu'l-Bahá's table.  On the shelves were huge pans holding rice soaking in clean water to be ready for the delicious pilau (a famous Persian dish) and there were many other visible evidences of the hours of preparation necessary to provide for the material welfare of the visitors.
It was then we learned of her practical efficiency.  The enormous amount of work attendant upon such entertaining with only the crudest and most primitive facilities, must be seen to be appreciated.  We learned that she had organized the household affairs, and each one of the Master's daughters took her turn at directing them for a week-planning the meals and marketing, and seeing that all was cooked and served to the different groups twice each day.  Without running water, with only charcoal for fuel, with no gas or electricity for lighting, only oil, the cleaning and filling of the lamps alone consumed a large amount of time and energy.  I well remember seeing one day the array of lamps waiting to be filled and returned to their respective rooms.  The tired little sigh with which one of the ladies was regarding them, told the story, and I thought how true it is that here in the East as well as in the West, "Woman's work is never done!"
Seeing this side of the character of the Greatest Holy Leaf, we recalled the answer made by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to one in this country who said to Him:  "Please explain to me the story of Martha and Mary."  He did not do this, but said:  "It is My hope that you will revive the lights of both those revered women."  In Bahá'íyyih Khánum we found this exquisite balance between the practical and spiritual teachings perfectly exemplified, and once more could be thankful for the privilege of becoming witness to the possibility of actually living the life of a true believer, fully and joyously, even in a Turkish prison, under the most trying and difficult conditions that could possibly be conceived.
When the dreaded moment came to say goodbye, the sorrow of parting from the beloved ladies was lessened only by the hope of a future visit.  The last face I remember was that of the Greatest Holy Leaf, calm, gentle, radiant, her deep understanding eyes shedding the light of the Love of God upon us, that light which only glows brighter with the passing of the years.


XXIII:7, October 1932
page 226
White roses of Persia
Part III
Martha L. Root
This is the third part in the serial story of the martyrdom of Varqá and his little son Rúhu'lláh, early Persian Bahá'ís.  The preceding chapters gave a summary of the family history; copies of the Tablets (letters) of Bahá'u'lláh addressed to them; a brief account of the wonderful visit of the father and his two sons to 'Akká to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá; and a copy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's Tablet to Rúhu'lláh.  The story will be concluded in the November number.
Rúhu'lláh, a boy so timid that he would never even go alone into the garden in the evening, was always remarkably courageous when it came to doing anything for the Bahá'í Cause.  He thought a great deal about becoming a martyr, and in this connection wrote the following poem which he sent to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  One can see in reading it, how the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh train even a child into becoming a savant and a philosopher.  No translation from the Persian can give the exquisite meter nor an adequate interpretation of the Persian metaphors alluding to literature and letters which the cultured people of Írán know so well.  Here is his poem:
"In the Name of our Great Lord Abhá!
O Cup Bearer, fill the cup to the brim
Make this Zion of my heart full of fire with your Wine.
It is the time of receiving Bounties and the day of help.
Face O friends of Bahá
Towards the world with the banners of Guidance.
Any one rising to serve God,
The Lord of Mankind will help him,
The one who sacrifices his life in the Covenant of God,
The Face of God will turn towards him.
O Cup-Bearer, give a cup from Thy Bounties
That I may be pure from sin,
Although my sins cannot be counted,
Still I am hopeful through the Favour of God.
Welcome, O Cup Bearer of the Ancient Gathering.
Let fall a drop to this earth (body) through Thy Favour
Till through Generosity, this ray may shine
And be worthy of sacrifice.
O God, when the time will come that at Thy Door
I may give my life for the Love of Thy Face
What a happy day it will be,
That in the square of love
I may give my life
In the path of the Beloved's Love!
What a happy moment it will be, That I may say openly
The praise of King Bahá on the cross!
O God, when shall come that time
That I may be severed from this fated body,
Facing towards the eternal Rose-garden
Becoming verdant from the Bounties of seeing God?
I am burning in the desert of privation
And inflamed from the sparks of remoteness.
Take the veil from Thy Face ('Abdu'l-Bahá)
O King of the Worlds
In order that from the Light of Thy Face
The heavens may become illumined.
Page 227
O Prince of Covenant!
O King of Covenant!
From your fire the Párán of Covenant is on fire.
O Thou, who hast named Thyself "'Abdu'l-Bahá" (The Servant of Bahá).
Through Thy Commands the banners of Guidance are uplifted.
Thou art the Dawning Place of the secrets of God;
Thou art the spring of the rivers of God,
Like the letter A thou hast stood to uplift the Cause of God
O powerful King of Kings!
But like the letter B, thou art humble in service near the door of the Shrine of Lord Bahá.
O Thou who art the Greatest Branch of the Tree of the Cause,
O Thou who art Branched from the Ancient Root,
O Thou who art the Dawning Place of the Inspiration of God,
Through Thee the eyes of Abhá people are enlightened.
"Give a cup from the divine wine, that I who am sleeping may become conscious;
Rend asunder the veils of doubt and superstitions,
Soar to the zenith of the Seventh Heaven,
Pass from this dark cage of earth and water
Going to the pure spiritual Kingdom;
Become free from this world full of torture and pain,
Facing the spiritual Native Land,
Inhaling from the Rose-Garden of the soul
The fragrance of the Beloved;
Returning like a wind from the Land of the Beloved,
Blowing fragrant and life giving breezes
Bearing sorrow sweeping Glad-Tidings;
Saying openly to the friends of the world
It is the Day of the Covenant!
"Friends be on your guard,
O lovers of the Face of the Beloved,
Turn your souls toward the Land of the Beloved,
O comrades, grasp the opportunity,
Help and assist the Cause of God,
Try, O friends, that there may be spread in the regions of the earth
The Teachings of the Powerful God
Until the sleeping creatures may become conscious,
May lay aside superstitions and prejudices,
Their eyes becoming enlightened with the Light of God;
The thorn gardens of their hearts becoming rose-gardens,
Try, O friends, it is time for service.
"Give a glance through Kindness to this yearning, sorrowing bird,
Who, being far from Thee, is restless and inconsolable.
Through being so distant from Thee, my heart is on fire,
Being away from Thee has inflamed my whole being,
Help, O King, of the Kingdom of hearts!
Being far from Thee has put my heart into flames;
I am burning, O King, from being so far from Thee.
Here, in this desert of loneliness and longing,
Liberate this bird from the trap of sorrowfulness
O King of Bounty and Sovereign of Favour!
Do not look unto my station and capacity
But look unto Thy Favour, O Bountiful One!"


XXIII:8, November 1932
page 255
White roses of Persia
Part IV
Martha L. Root
This is the fourth and concluding part in the serial story of the martyrdom of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá and his little son, Rúhu'lláh, early Persian Bahá'ís.  The preceding chapters gave a summary of the family history, copies of Tablets (letters) of Bahá'u'lláh addressed to them, a brief account of the wonderful pilgrimage of the father and his two sons to 'Akká to see Abdu'l-Bahá, and in the last number the poem which the little son, Rúhu'lláh wrote in connection with his desire for martyrdom.
O Bahá'u'lláh:  you are worth a thousand Násiri'd-Dín Sháhs!  Násiri'd-Dín Sháh was the Sháhansháh King of Kings) who ruled when the Báb was shot with a thousand bullets, when Bahá'u'lláh was exiled with His family; and he was the Ruler in Rúhu'lláh's day.
Persecutions quickly increased in violence in Zanján and 'Alí Muhammad Varqá was urged to bring his family and come to Tihrán to teach the Bahá'í Cause.  He sent Azízu'lláh, who was then fourteen years old, on ahead to stay with the grandfather, and he and Rúhu'lláh started one month later.  They were arrested with other Bahá'ís when they were about half way to Tihrán and were taken back to Zanján with heavy chains about their necks and their feet in stocks.  The governor of Zanján spoke with them and asked if they were Bahá'ís.  'Alí Muhammad Varqá spoke first and said, "Yes."  Little Rúhu'lláh when questioned said, "Yes, I am a Bahá'í."  But one old man denied the Faith saying "No, I am not a believer."  The Governor in disgust struck him saying, "Everyone knows you call yourself a Bahá'í and now you deny it; but this little boy who is just at the beginning of his life and has so many hopes in the world, has had the courage to say he is a Bahá'í."
The Governor asked the Mullás to come and talk with these Bahá'ís.  The Mullás said that they must be killed because their faith, their Teachings were against Islám.  The Governor sent to ask the Prime Minister in Tihrán what should be done and the Prime Minister said to send the Bahá'í prisoners to the capital.  So they were sent in their chains to Tihrán and a photograph was taken as soon as they arrived.  It was the custom to take photographs of prisoners and send them to the state.  The description was written on the picture.  Rúhu'lláh's abá (coat) and kuláh (cap) had been taken away from him and the ones that appear in the photograph were hastily borrowed from another prisoner and put on the child.  They were much too large for him.  They are not his own clothes at all.  Now the family actually has the original photograph that was filed with the prison record.  (In the revolution of 1908 when all the old archives and records were thrown out, a Bahá'í official saw this photograph and took it to Azízu'lláh Varqá and the indictment, the crime, written is that they had become Bahá'ís, Bábís).  After arresting 'Alí Muhammad Varqá the policemen had gone to his home and carried off his beautiful painting of the Báb (and there is only one other in the world) taken many of his precious Tablets, plundered the family books, even the register that gave the dates of
Page 256
their birth so that some of the family do not know when their birthdays are.  They confiscated their property.
When all this had taken place and they were settled in the prison, Azízu'lláh succeeded in getting permission to go and see his father and brother in the prison.  "Rúhu'lláh, what do you need, what can I bring you?" asked Azízu'lláh and the little brother said eagerly:  "Please bring me a Book of Tablets and the Book of Prayers to read in the prison, for they took away all my books."  The food was very bad in that prison and the child had very few clothes, but he did not ask for any material things.
One of the prisoners who is still living told Azízu'lláh Varqá that one night in the dungeon when all the others were sleeping he saw 'Alí Muhammad Varqá lean over his little son, Rúhu'lláh, look at him so long and so lovingly, pray, and then he said:  "O Bahá'u'lláh, I thank Thee that Thou hast accepted our sacrifice."  This was not human love for his boy.  It was divine love!
__________
'Alí Muhammad Varqá was thirty-eight years old and his little son, Rúhu'lláh, was just beginning his twelfth year.  They had been in the Tihrán prison just two months when one Friday, Násiri'd-Dín Sháh, Ruler of Persia, went out to Sháh Zádih 'Abdu'l-Azím, a village near Tihrán where there is one of the Muslim holy Shrines.  He had ruled from 1844 until this Friday in 1896, when at the holy Shrine he was shot and killed by a Muslim revolutionary.
Everything that ever occurred in Persia at that time was blamed upon the Bahá'ís.  The Prime Minister knew that the murderer was a Muslim and said so.  However, the Chief of the Court without consulting the Prime Minister commanded the executioner to come into one room of the dungeon with him and the Bahá'í prisoners to be brought into the long dark corridor leading to this room.  There the men stood in a row waiting their turn to enter.  First to go in was 'Alí Muhammad Varqá while his little son Rúhu'lláh stood in the open doorway as he was second.  The Chief of the Court cursed 'Alí Muhammad Varqá, saying:  "It is you Bahá'ís who have murdered the Sháh!"  The prisoners had had no news, they had not heard that the Sháh had been shot that day.  'Alí Muhammad Varqá answered him:  "Bahá'ís would never kill His Imperial Majesty the Sháhansháh."  Angered by this, the Chief of the Court ordered the executioner to put 'Alí Muhammad's head into the stock and to cut his body to pieces.  Rúhu'lláh witnessed the marvellous heroism of his great father as he suffered this horrible death.  Then the Chief of the Court turned to the child who had stepped into the room to receive his own death, and said:  "You must curse Bahá'u'lláh; if you do, you can go free and I will give you whatever you wish."  Rúhu'lláh, looking into his eyes said solemnly:  "I have seen Bahá'u'lláh!  I could never curse Him!  I will go with my father."
The Chief of the Court whispered to the executioner to strangle the boy well in order to frighten him, but not to kill him.  This was done.  They put the rope about his neck so tightly he swooned and it looked as
Page 257
if he were dead, but after some time he slowly regained consciousness and the Chief of the Court again ordered him to curse Bahá'u'lláh, "No, I will never curse Him, I will go with my father," said this child and intuitively he threw himself on his knees and began to pray to God.  The Chief of the Court was so unnerved and upset, that he shouted to the executioner to kill the child quickly and he himself ran out of the room past the other Bahá'í prisoners and out of the place to his own home.  The executioner quickly cut Rúhu'lláh's throat and the supreme sacrifice of two of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's great heroes was over.
Many have been martyred in the Cause to establish the Bahá'í religion, but the eternal glory of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá and little Rúhu'lláh is, that they voluntarily offered to give their lives to help establish the Teachings of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The other Bahá'ís in that corridor were never killed, they were set free.  The Prime Minister was very angry with the Chief of the Court.  He called him and demanded why he had done this hideous deed.  The only answer was:  "I thought perhaps Bahá'ís had killed the King and I wanted revenge!"  The Prime Minister replied:  "You knew the murderer was a Muslim!"  That Chief of the Court still lives, a miserable, unhappy, trembling man when the Varqá name is mentioned.  He still walks the streets of Tihrán.
__________
The story of the martyrdoms of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá and Rúhu'lláh is absolutely true.  It is told by the third prisoner in that line in the corridor who was standing on the threshold just behind Rúhu'lláh and he was still residing in Zanján until his death two years ago.
Also, the Chief of the great Bakhtíyárí Tribe whose son today has an important place in the government, wishing to hear the truth about this atrocious crime, a few year ago invited that former Chief of the Court to dine in his home.  His sons were present and a few other men relatives.  They asked him to tell them the whole story about the killing of the Varqá father and son.  There was a reason why they wished to hear because the host's own brother had become a Bahá'í years earlier through the teacher, 'Alí Muhammad Varqá.  The former Chief of the Court did tell them everything and it was exactly as the third prisoner had related it.  The Bakhtíyárí Chief and his relatives wept, and they were so angry they beat the former Chief of the Court and kicked him out into the street.
In the thirty-three years since the holy blood of these two martyrs was shed, a new white rose has begun to be cultivated in Persia, a rose whose perfume will be more heralded than all the 'attár of Írán, for this is the rose of "tolerance in religion".  For more than a thousand years Persia had not known this rose.
__________
I had longed to visit the graves of these two great martyrs, to bow my head in humblest, tenderest reverence where their dear hurt bodies are laid to rest.  One day the opportunity came very unexpectedly.  We were driving out to see the Bahá'í cemetery and friends said "There in the distance where you
Page 258
see the trees and the garden is the mausoleum of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá and his son Rúhu'lláh; we are going to take you there after we visit the Bahá'í cemetery."  I had expected to go there with the Varqá family, but in the busy days of speaking and writing there had never beef a free hour, so it seemed good to go now and we went.  In the days of the passing of these martyrs there was no Bahá'í cemetery and in fact their bodies were hid for a number of years.  Then Azízu'lláh Varqá and his younger brother Valíyu'lláh bought a little estate near Tihrán (about twenty minutes ride by motor car from the Yúsúf Ábád Gate of the city.  It is enclosed by high walls and divided into two parts by another high wall.  The first part is like a miniature farm or very large garden with little houses for the caretaker and his family.  Each member of this peasant family was so clean, so sweet, so spiritual, one could but feel that they had been refined and ennobled by their cherished task of caring for the garden where such glorious saints are resting.
Going through the first garden into the second was like stepping into paradise.  It was still winter, but the trees, the vines, the rose bushes showed plainly that in the spring and summer the place is a haven of shade and perfume.  It was a typical Persian garden with a stately little lake and the birds were singing softly.  The mausoleum is a beautiful nine-sided building approached with nine paths through the garden and within are nine sides and the whole is in pure white.
O, what a real peace in that place!  The sun poured through the windows as if it loved to come and dwell there!  I knelt to pray and whispered first:  "O Bahá'u'lláh Thou art here with them!  It is the same kind of peace that I experienced in Bahjí at Thy Tomb!  Thou hast never left them, living and dead Thou art with them always!"  Truly it was a spiritual communion to pray in this holy spot!
Silently we passed out from that holy shrine, pressed the hands of the kind caretakers, and came back into the world of service in Tihrán.
__________
It is lives like these of 'Alí Muhammad Varqá and little Rúhu'lláh that mirror forth the power and the beauty of the Bahá'í Teachings.
As the aftermath to this story, would you not like to hear of the two other sons, Azízu'lláh and Valíyu'lláh?  They are two of the most spiritual and efficient Bahá'ís of Tihrán.  Azízu'lláh went to Paris to help 'Abdu'l-Bahá when He journeyed to Europe, and Valíyu'lláh was called to be one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's secretaries during the historic journey to the United States and Great Britain, in 1912.  Friends in New York will remember that the night before 'Abdu'l-Bahá started to California, a great many friends had called to say good bye.  Valíyu'lláh Varqá was down in the drawing room greeting them and serving tea to each one.  'Abdu'l-Bahá came down the stairs from His apartment into the drawing room and called out:  "Valíyu'lláh, come my soul, my dear!"  He took his hand.  Then He went over and sat down by the window and addressed the friends, saying:  "Tonight I shall introduce
Page 259
to you Mírzá Valíyu'lláh Khán Varqá.  He is my son, whatever he says it is true.  Believe it."  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá told the story of the grandfather of Valíyu'lláh, the story of his father and little brother Rúhu'lláh ending with their martyrdom.  When He had finished He went upstairs and below the silent guests heard Him weeping.  So, darling little Rúhu'lláh, you and your good father were not only teaching the Bahá'í Cause in Persia, you are teaching it down the ages and in every continent.  Every eye that reads of you, every ear that hears of you is urged forward to action!


XXIII:9, December 1932
page 266
The meaning of Christ
A compilation from the revealed Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the divinely appointed authoritative Interpreter of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.
Christ's birthday is a glorious day.  It is necessary that these anniversary celebrations be observed, else man in his negligence would forget all about his Creator.  But we should seek to penetrate the dark veils of custom and imitation of ancestors, perchance we may discover the reality of the meaning.
The advent of Christ on this earth was a blessed day for it was the day on which the Sun of Reality dawned; the day on which all beings were revivified.  In the world's calendar, it was the beginning of a Heavenly Spring. ...  When He was on earth He was not thought much of notwithstanding they were awaiting His coming with great impatience.  They thought that they would be His intimate friends.  When He came they knew Him not; they persecuted Him and finally killed Him.
(Unity Triumphant, p. 111.)
Page 268
Christ said that nothing could ascend into heaven except that which came down from heaven.  He also said, "I came from heaven and will return to heaven," and "The Son of Man is in heaven."  He said this while still upon the earth and notwithstanding the fact that he had been born from Mary.  There is no doubt Christ came from heaven and always was in heaven, but when He spoke He did not mean the literal sky.  What then is meant by heaven?  Science proves that there is no heaven or sky, but all is limitless space and one universe.  In this limitless space the heavenly spheres revolve and have their orbits.  But the "heaven" of Christ is that invisible world which is beyond the sight and comprehension of mere man.  It is the spiritual condition.  Therefore the "heaven" of Christ is the Will of God.  The Sun of that heaven will never set.  In it the moon and stars are always shining.  It is the limitless Kingdom of God.  It is sanctified from all place.  Christ is always there.
(Ten Days in the Light of 'Akká, p. 26.)


XXIII:10, January 1933
page 302
Count Leo Tolstoy and the Bahá'í Movement
Martha L. Root
When I was in Prague, Czechoslovakia, in 1927, I met the secretary of Count Leo Tolstoy, Mr Valentin Bulgakov; we had a long talk about Count Tolstoy and his contact with the Bahá'í Movement.  Later, in December 1930, I met Miss Alexandra Tolstoy, the youngest daughter of this great Russian writer and humanitarian.  She said to me then, "What Mr Bulgakov has told you about my father's interest in the Bahá'í Movement is true.  He was with him during the last four years of my father's life; he was his secretary and arranged his library."  Then, too, I corresponded with Mrs Isabel Grinevsky of Leningrad in 1927 and she wrote me about Count Tolstoy.
It is through these kind friends that I have the facts for this article.  An added interest was given to the subject for me when only a few days ago, 31 May 1932, I interviewed the president of a Roman Catholic university in Poland who had met 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 1914, in Haifa, Palestine.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said to him that there was no greater writer in Europe than Count Leo Tolstoy.  "What a pity that Tolstoy, who so admired the Teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, never had the privilege of meeting Him."
"Count Tolstoy knew the Bahá'í Teachings through literature.  I think he did not know any Bahá'ís personally," said Mr Bulgakov in his talk with me.  "He first heard of the Bahá'í Movement in May, 1903, when Mrs Isabel Grinevsky brought out in Leningrad (the former capital of Russia that then was called St. Petersburg) a great drama called Bab; it was in verse and gave the illumined history of the Forerunner of the Bahá'í Movement, a young man called [the] Báb and His disciples called Letters of the Living; the scenes were laid in Persia.  This drama was played in one of the principle theatres of St. Petersburg, in January 1904, and given a remarkable reception.  Some of the critics went far in its praise.  For example, the poet Fiedler (who afterward translated the drama into German) said:  'We receive from the five acts of the poetical drama Bab more information about the Bahá'í Movement than from the deep, scientific researches of Professor Edward G. Browne, Gobineau and Russian scientists and historians.  As the Herold has already published two full feuilletons1 about the poem, we shall speak only of the performance of the play.  Rarely has the renown of any play preceded the performance as has this of Mrs Grinevsky.'"
The Herold of January 1904, printed the following:
"The drama appeared in May of last year, 1903, the most inconvenient time for the coming out of a book, but nevertheless pens of critics began to move in the journals and magazines in praise of the author's work.  Moreover, enlight-
Page 303
ened Persian society sent an inspired letter of thanks; and above all, Isabel Grinevsky had the high spiritual satisfaction that among those who praised her drama was the lion of contemporary Russian literature, Leo Tolstoy."
Mr Wesselitzky, a Russian journalist and president of the Foreign Press Association in London, gave an address about this drama Bab in London, in English and the lecture was published in pamphlet form in French and English.  I quote one paragraph from this speech:  "Amidst the sorrows of disastrous war and those dreadful inner troubles, that book, Bab, was my only happy impression and it has remained since a permanent source of joy and comfort as a manifest proof of the vitality of Russia and its creative genius."2
"Count Tolstoy read this drama Bab with great interest," Mr Bulgakov told me, "and sent a letter to Mrs Grinevsky praising her work and telling her he was in sympathy with these teachings of the Bahá'í Movement."  His letter to her was published in the press of Russia.  Mrs Grinevsky also wrote me about this letter from Count Tolstoy which she has preserved.
Next Count Tolstoy read a booklet by Mr Arakewian that described further the history of the early followers of the Báb and gave a short account of the teachings.  He studied it with eager interest, his secretary told me, and sent a copy of it to one of his friends, Mr Boulanger, who was writing a book about all religions.  Count Tolstoy urged Mr Boulanger to include a chapter on Bahai-ism in this new
Page 304
book.  Unfortunately the book was not published before Count Tolstoy passed on, then came the world war and it was never printed.  "Count Tolstoy's heart and soul were in all universal movements like the Bahá'í Movement that aim at the unity of all mankind," said Mr Bulgakov.
He also told me that Count Tolstoy read with deep appreciation the book, "The Voices of the Peoples" by Ivan Nagivin, in which the author writes much about different religions, the old Christian sects in Russia, the Indian Religions, and about Bahai-ism.  Tolstoy liked this work because it opposed militarism and all fighting and stood for universal peace.  He gave copies of this book to several of his friends sending them from his home in Yasnaya Polyana.
When I asked Mr Bulgakov if Count Tolstoy had Bahá'í books in his library, he replied:  "Certainly, he had Bahá'í books in several languages.  After he had read the drama Bab and knew of the Bahá'í Movement, he sent and bought what books he could get.  I remember a picture in one of the English books-a picture of a young man who looked like Christ, and was the Founder of this movement."
The secretary said that Count Tolstoy had studied the Bibles of all religions profoundly.
As one of the principles of Bahá'u'lláh is a universal auxiliary language, I asked the secretary what Count Tolstoy thought about such a language to help promote world peace, and quickly he replied:  "He thought it was very important, and when he heard for the first time about Esperanto he was so delighted that he took an Esperanto grammar, studied it two hours and wrote a letter in Esperanto!  He was then about seventy years old.  He knew many languages, Russian, English, French, German, Italian, Hebrew, Greek, Latin."
Count Tolstoy, I feel, was a Bahá'í in spirit, for the word signifies in the Persian language "Light-bearer", even though he heard of the Teachings late in life.
He was born 10 September 1828, and so was nearly seventy-five when he first learned through the drama Bab of this universal religion for peace which had its rise in Persia about the middle of the nineteenth century.  He passed on 10 November 1910, but in one of his last writings, I hear, he penned these words which will be read not only by this generation but by millions yet unborn:  "We spend our lives trying to unlock the mystery of the universe, but there was a Turkish Prisoner, Bahá'u'lláh, in 'Akká, Palestine, who had the key!"


XXIII:12, March 1933
page 374
Glimpses of the New World Order
Part I
Notes on a visit to Haifa and 'Akká
Mabel and Sylvia Paine
"The sea has innumerable pearls in its depths.  A good and trained diver will obtain therefrom abundant pearls."  'Abdu'l-Bahá.
A little party of four boarded the Carnaro at Trieste on 4 November 1931.  We were bound for Haifa, Palestine, where we expected, through meeting Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause, and the family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and through visiting the shrines of the Founders of the Bahá'í Faith-the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá-to gain light on the problems that so vex the world, to make contact with the universal love that had instilled into those who associated with Him and to deepen our faith in the invincible power which has characterized that Faith from its inception.
On 9 November, in the afternoon, the city of Haifa came into view.  It lies at the foot of Mt. Carmel, the mountain famed in Old Testament annals as the abode of the Prophets of God.  In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries it has again become the centre from which spiritual teachings have gone forth.  And its spiritual revival has been accompanied by considerable material progress, for it is already the chief shipping centre for Palestine.  Our first impression on entering its harbour was of a commercial activity which had been distinctly lacking at the older and more Oriental port of Jaffa, where we had anchored a few hours earlier.  Work on the deepened harbour is in constant progress and 'ere long ships will dock at Haifa.
After landing, some of us chose to walk through the narrow crooked streets with Ruhí Afnán, grandson of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and cousin of Shoghi Effendi, who was at the dock to greet us.  Haifa streets show a mingling of the Oriental and the cosmopolitan.  Its inhabitants-Jews, Arabs, Germans, French, English, Persians, and Americans-all retaining to some extent their distinctive dress, language, and customs, give the city the charm of diversity.  It was interesting to note the disappearance of one former Oriental feature, the traditional black dress and veil covering the whole head and face of the Arab women.  Of the Arab women we saw nearly all were unveiled.
Our walk brought us at last to the Bahá'í Western Pilgrim House situated near the edge of the city a little way up Mt. Carmel.  About this house is a very delightful blending of the Orient with the Occident, the beautiful and dignified with the homey and comfortable.  The circular central hall with its marble pillars, the lofty ceilings, the fiat roof, sun-drenched by day and moonlight bathed at night, seem apart from our workaday world of the West.  But the furnish-
Page 375
ings of bedrooms, reading, writing, sitting, and dining rooms are Occidental.  In the gardens on three sides of the house are magnificent poinsettias, roses, jasmine, chrysanthemums.  Soon the freesias will be blossoming.  We are indebted to Fugeta from Japan for these carefully tended gardens as well as many a kind personal service.  Effie from Australia, of Scotch ancestry, is responsible for the beautiful order of the interior of the house.  Both help to maintain the pervasive atmosphere of kindly cheer which is neither of the Orient nor the Occident, but, of the Kingdom.
__________
Tuesday, 10 November.  Today at luncheon Shoghi Effendi was present and, through his conversation, we were given a view as from a mountain top of present conditions in the world and the relations of Bahá'ís to these conditions.  Bahá'ís, he says, are loyal to the government, but eschew party politics.  They are eager to serve their country through devoting themselves to the welfare of the people.  They hold administrative posts only when these are not dependent on party politics.  Some Bahá'ís in Persia have been appointed to important posts of this type.  One is chief magistrate in a city, one head of an imperial bank.  Gradually, as the Bahá'í Faith develops and spreads, it will number among its supporters outstanding citizens.  The early history of the Bahá'í religion in Persia reveals the fact that it had many notables in its ranks.
In each country the Bahá'ís have an especial problem.  In Germany it is the Semitic question; in Persia polygamy and opium; in France, alcohol; in England, class prejudice; in America, racial prejudice.  The teachings 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave on interracial relations are so sound, kind, and sincere, and the Bahá'í teaching of the oneness of mankind so thoroughgoing that Bahá'ís have a stronger programme and deeper sincerity than other workers for harmony between races.  The Bahá'ís need to be more courageous in applying these principles.  Especially should they convince the Negro and the world at large that they stand for lack of prejudice in social ways.
At three in the afternoon we went to the Shrine of the Báb and 'Abdu'l-Bahá on Mount Carmel.  It is only five or ten minutes walk from the Pilgrim House.  The road brings one to the foot of some terraces.  One enters a gate and climbs alternately by flights of stone steps and paths of red crushed stone.  On either side are scarlet geraniums and palms.  The approach to the shrine is steep.  And this steepness I liked, thinking of it as a bit of symbolism.
Near the shrine is a circle of cedars where Bahá'u'lláh used to sit.  A larger circle has been planted outside to protect the original trees.  The view from here is one of extreme beauty, embracing this part of the Mediterranean, 'Akká Bay, and, nine miles across the bay, the city of 'Akká which is always catching the light and reflecting it in some new way-truly like a jewel on a diadem.
Coming down the mountain we went into the house of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, now Shoghi Effendi's.  Here
Page 376
we had the privilege of meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá's sister, His widow and two of His daughters.  Each time we met these women, and this was nearly every day of our stay in Haifa, we realized more what the true beauty and nobility of womanhood may be.  The face of the sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Bábíyyih Khánum, although shadowed by age, was so full of love and a genuine interest in life and people that we did not think of her as old, but rather as ageless and eternal.  The freshness of the beauty of love radiating from her captivated us.  And from all these women one sees an intensely bright reflection of the Spirit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The fact that there are several of them and that each one has a strong individuality helps to broaden one's conception of the ideal Bahá'í character, for each is thoroughly lovely in a different way.
__________
When we were in Geneva earlier in the autumn we had the great privilege of meeting Munírih Khánum, the youngest daughter of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  She showed us then both in word and deed the nature of the love which 'Abdu'l-Bahá's life exemplified.  For nearly eighty years, she told us, 'Abdu'l-Bahá lived a life of perfect love, each thing He did being a lesson to teach us how to love.  Realizing how difficult it is to attain such love, we questioned her a little further.  It must be real, she answered.  In this quality of genuineness it is like the love we have for our children.  If they do wrong we are eager to excuse them.
Then, dwelling a little also on the intellectual side of love she pointed out how necessary is understanding.  Most hatred comes from lack of understanding.  It is to aid in understanding that Bahá'u'lláh decreed the "parliament of nations, the federation of the world".  She spoke in a simple and profound way of the condition of the world.  It seemed to her like a wayward child.  Through Bahá'u'lláh God has shown it the way of salvation, the same way that Christ and other great religious Founders have pointed out, the eternal path which every religion in its pure and early stages shows.  But the world is slow to recognize the old path made new by the clearing away of the debris of age-long superstition and imitation.  And because of this slowness of apprehension God allows suffering to come in order that through suffering this child may learn.  In the same way a kind parent would allow his child to suffer in order that its understanding might increase.
__________
But to come back to this afternoon in Haifa.  The conversation turned on relations with people, and the importance of not interfering with the religious beliefs of others was brought out.  "Leave them alone as to their religious belief, but be very kind to them."  Words like these were spoken by the wife of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  She told an incident to illustrate what she meant.  When a young girl she wanted to keep both the Muslim and the Bahá'í fast, but her mother thought that this would be too great a strain on her health as one fast followed immediately after the other.  Her father said, "Leave her alone and it will come to her."
Page 377
And so it did, when she was fifteen or sixteen.  She said The Kitáb-i-Íqán (Book of Certitude) by Bahá'u'lláh helped her much.  She wanted us to be sure to read it in the new translation by Shoghi Effendi.
Rúhá Khánum, one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's daughters, spoke of joy and sorrow, wondering which brought us nearer to God.  She thought, sorrow.  She told of an American woman who came a long way to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá because she had heard that He was a great spiritual teacher.  She was suffering intensely because her loved ones had died.  Her love for them consumed all other thought and she longed only to have them again.  But in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá she obtained the real comfort none else had been able to give.
That evening at dinner Effie told a story illustrating another side of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, His love of fun and happiness.  He and His entourage were staying in Lady Bs house in London.  One evening there was a sound of much laughter below stairs.  It was so gay and arresting that Lady B. went down to find the occasion of the mirth, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá followed.  They found Khusraw, 'Abdu'l-Bahá's servant, and one of the maids laughing and joking very happily.  Khusraw was telling how women in the Orient have to obey the men and how if he and the maid were there she would have to do just what he told her and the maid was answering that in England things were different and, since they were in England, he must do what she said, etc.  'Abdu'l-Bahá gave them each two shillings for being happy.
(To be continued)


XXIV:1, April 1933
page 14
Russia's cultural contribution to the Bahá'í Faith
Part I
Martha L. Root
The author, well known as a Bahá'í travelling teacher and lecturer, here relates the story of the Russian poet who gave to the world three celebrated writings about the Bahá'í Teachings.  Miss Root has succeeded in giving us a marvellous bit of history and a story of surpassing interest.  The second part will follow next month.
Mrs Isabel Grinevsky, a Russian poet in Leningrad, gave a great impetus to the Bahá'í Movement and to world art in her three celebrated writings, the two dramas, Bab and Baha'u'llah and a narrative called A Journey in the Countries of the Sun.  The last named is an account of her visit to in 1911 when He was in Ramleh, Egypt.  While the last is in prose it has verses introduced so that we might almost say that the three form a trilogy in poetic form presenting the new universal religion of the oneness of mankind proclaimed by those three heavenly personages, the Báb the Forerunner, Bahá'u'lláh the Revealer of the Word and 'Abdu'l-Bahá the Centre of the Covenant of the Bahá'í Movement.
From the point of view of art the dramas rank high.  Russian critics affirm that these works have proclaimed their author a poet of the first order.  One of her countrymen, Mr Wesselitzky, President of the Foreign Press Association of London, said that he read the drama Bab on a railway train when he was returning to England from Russia in August, 1905.  His own words were:  "I was at once attracted by the rare combination of philosophical thought with a great power of expression, beauty, imagery, and harmony of verse.  I keenly felt the delight of reading a new, great poem and discovering a new first rate poet.  I should have felt so on broad, general grounds from whatever country the poet came!  However, my joy was intensified by the fact that the poem had been written in my own language and that the author was a country woman of mine."
This article purports to give a little history of these works, for 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself praised these dramas.  (I do not know that He saw the narrative.)  When He held the manuscript of the drama Baha'u'llah in His hands, He blessed it and prophesied to the author that these two dramas would be played in Tihrán!
The drama Bab was published in May 1903, and was played in one of the principal theatres in St. Petersburg in January 1904.  It was this drama that first brought to Count Leo Tolstoy a knowledge of the Bahá'í teachings.  He read the book and at once wrote to Mrs Grinevsky his appreciation of her great drama and his sympathy with the Bahá'í Movement; the letter was printed in the Russian press and the poet has his letter in her possession now.
__________
I have before me as I write a clipping from the Herold of
Page 15
January 1904:  "The play Bab appeared in May of last year, 1903, the most inconvenient time for the appearance of a book.  Nevertheless the pens of the critics began to move in the journals and magazines in order to compose hymn songs of praise to the author.  Moreover an enlightened Persian society sent her an inspired letter of thanks; and above all, Mrs Isabel Grinevsky had the spiritual satisfaction that among those who eulogized her drama was the lion of contemporary Russian literature, Leo Tolstoy.  The impression was such that it made us think that amidst the statists representing the Persian throngs were real Persians; it seemed as if the scene exhaled the perfume of the roses of Shiraz!"
Mr Wesselitsky, whom I mentioned earlier in this story, gave a lecture in London in 1907 about this drama and his speech was afterwards published in pamphlets in English and French.1  I quote two paragraphs:  "Amidst the sorrows of disastrous war and those dreadful inner troubles, that book Bab was my only happy impression, and it remains since a permanent source of joy and comfort as a manifest proof of the vitality of Russia and its creative genius.
"The romantic side of this drama, too, is quite original.  The plot is not based on adultery as in French drama and not on seduction as in 'Faust' but on renouncement and self-sacrifice.  The romantic side of the Bab is closely allied with the metaphysical-ethical side.  The drama has so much of the latter that every act may seem to be a sermon and the drama itself a suite of sermons.  Yet all that preaching is relieved by genuine enthusiasm, eloquence of the heart and real passion.  The conflict in the soul of the hero is not between passion and reason, but between two passions-human love and love divine-the latter being stronger and more ardent than the former.  It is that manifestation of the power of the higher aims in the heart of man which is the chief feature of this book and the secret of its irresistible charm."
__________
Celebrating the decade of the first performance of Bab in January 1914, Mrs Grinevsky gave a great conference on the drama in one of the most beautiful concert halls of Leningrad.  The "St. Petersburg Informations Paper" gives the event a long review praising the author and her reading of selections from the poem and her address.  One paragraph particularly I remember:  "As a characteristic of the frame of mind of the poetess during the creation of her poem, the following words of her own may serve as an illustration:  'A well known professor told me that the name of my poem, Bahai does not sound well to the ears of Russians.  I answered that the names of the people who preached the ideals of love, paying for those ideals with their lives, must sound well to all those who have ears to hear.  All noble ideals are so few in these days that it
Page 16
would be worth while to renew the performance of Bab in order to awaken the remembrance of these ideals.  We, the people of the West, rise too late, we do not know the East where the sun shines!'"
The play was presented again in the Folk Theatre in Leningrad in April 1917, after the Russian Revolution.  People came even from Moscow and Turkistán to see it.  Diplomats from foreign countries were in the audience; the ambassador from China was one.  A second edition of the drama had been published in 1916, and these books were sold at the entrance of the theatre; many spectators sat with the open books in their hands during this performance.  It is a long drama in five acts, equal in the number of verses to "Don Carlos" of Schiller and "Cromwell" of Victor Hugo.
__________
When I wrote asking Mrs Grinevsky about these dramas she sent me several letters.  I should state that she has written many works along different lines of thought and lectured on many subjects in Russia, and had often spoken in conferences on these two dramas, Bab and Baha'u'llah.  She was a member of the former Philosophic Society of the University, an active member of the former Oriental Society, and is a member of the present Bibiological Society and several literary societies and unions.  She said that before she wrote her poem Bab the Russian public generally had not heard much about the Bahá'í Movement.  She herself knew about it only from reading.  The critics thought she had travelled much in Persia, she was so well informed about the life there, but as a matter of fact she had not been in Írán.  She had heard that some Bahá'í believers from Persia had been driven out of their land into Turkey and India, and that some had come to Turkistán and were residing in the cities of Tashkent, Ishqábád and Mary and in the city of Baku in the Caucasus.
"Still, I thought" she says, "these believers in the Báb now called Bahá'ís had mingled with other nations, and perhaps had ceased to exist as a religious entity.  The description of Professor Edward G. Browne seemed to me a fairy tale.  How astonished I was when, after my drama Bab made its appearance in 1903, I received one day a letter with the following address:  'To the author of the book Bab, Mrs Isabel Grinevsky in St. Petersburg.'  Neither street nor number of the house was marked, yet thanks to the careful postal authorities, that letter though unregistered, reached me safely."
Both the handwriting and signature proved unknown but she relates:  "That letter was from 'Alí-Akbar Mamedhanly from Báku who wrote that he was a believer in the Báb, that he had read in the News of Báku about my poem, the account of which had interested him greatly and that he would like to get the book.  He asked that if he found any mistakes against the Teachings of the Báb, could he perhaps point them out?  It was like a star falling from heaven at my feet!  As if I had found a precious stone where I
Page 17
had not expected to find one."
The book was mailed to him at once and she explained to that Bahá'í that she had had to deviate just a little from a few of the historical facts for the sake of a dramatic whole.  She added:  "I wrote for a public all unprepared to hear moral, religious and philosophical ideas from the stage; it was accustomed to lighter plays, not a theme about God, of religion, especially about the conception of a new religion or rather, I would say religion renewed!"
The Bahá'í from Báku politely replied to Mrs Grinevsky's letter as follows:  "The impression which I received in reading your drama was such that I could not see any mistakes of any kind, even though I read it many times.  We read it in the Bahá'í Assembly (meeting) and the believers send you sincerest thanks.  They feel sure that the literary world will soon unite in a general solemnizing of your creative powers."
She said that he also wrote beautifully about the Bahá'í life in Caucasus stating among other points:  "We live here cherishing the tenets for which our grandfathers, fathers and brothers shed their blood maintaining the chief principles:  pardon, patience and love to mankind."  Mrs Grinevsky said that these letters were written in Russian and showed that the Bahá'ís were very enlightened in literature and science.  She also added:  "It was such a joy to me to find that there are in the world people so congenial to me in feeling and in vision.  I loved with my soul those spiritual people who, just like the people in my drama, were holding those principles of pardon, patience and love to all mankind, holding them not as a dead dogma but as a living truth!"
(To be continued)


XXIV:1, April 1933
page 18
Glimpses of the New World Order
Part II
Notes on a visit to Haifa and 'Akká
Mabel and Sylvia Paine
"We cannot conceive of a star without light, a tree without seed.  If we claim to be followers of light we must diffuse the light through our actions.  To label ourselves will not be sufficient. ...  One who is wise in the ways of God sees that his words and deeds reflect the glory of God."1
In the first instalment of these "Diary Notes" of a visit to Haifa and 'Akká, published last month, the authors told of their arrival at Haifa and of their meeting with Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause; with Bábíyyih Khánum, the sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and other members of His family, and of their conversations with them concerning Him.  The present instalment definitely concerns a visit to 'Akká the old Prison quarters where Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá and seventy followers were incarcerated with unspeakable hardships and sufferings.
__________
Saturday, 14 November.   Today at luncheon the subject of the divinity of Christ came up.  This phrase, Shoghi Effendi pointed out, is ambiguous.  If it means God incarnate it is unscientific.  A truer word is Manifestation.  This word implies the true Trinity, which consists of God, Whom we may compare to the Sun; the Prophet-as Christ, Moses, Muhammad, Bahá'u'lláh-is like a perfect mirror catching the sun's rays and reflecting even its disc; and the Holy Spirit, which may be compared to the sun's rays connecting sun and mirror.
In the afternoon at tea with the ladies the talk was about bringing up children.  One of the ladies counselled, "Don't force them to take a certain course, however praiseworthy and desirable, but take the stones out of that path, make it as easy for them as you can."  She told how her children were taught to pray.  She didn't tell them to pray, but they saw and heard her pray.  One day when she was praying her little boy asked what she was doing.  She told him she was talking to God, asking Him to help them to be good.  After a day or two he said he would like to talk with God.
She said she thought what was needed, even more than people to talk and write about the Bahá'í teachings, was people to live them.  "How sad 'Abdu'l-Bahá was," she added, "when He heard of one who professed to be a Bahá'í yet did not live in the right way.  She told of a Persian Bahá'í who spoke rudely to his wife.  His little son noticed this and one day remarked to him, 'You can't be a Bahá'í, or you wouldn't speak in that way.'"
Another story she told was of a young Bahá'í in Persia to whom the cashier in a bank gave by mistake fifty pounds too much.  As soon as the young man discovered the mistake he returned the money.  The bank official was so much impressed that he asked the young man what his religion was.
Page 19
No one who witnessed the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá could doubt that the Bahá'í Faith is first of all the noble living of life.  Still, the memory of His teachings, reinforced by His life of loving service, remains in Haifa.  The other day this conversation was overheard in a Haifa shop.  A woman came in to make a purchase and asked the storekeeper how he was getting along.
"Just well enough," he replied, "to keep soul and body together.  But I am contented.  Life is short and happiness is not dependent on having many material things.  Abbás Effendi1 used to tell us so and make us realize it."
"Yes," answered the woman, "it seems to me Abbás Effendi is still living with us.  His body passed away but His life and influence still go on among us."
A Christian came to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's house shortly after His passing.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's life, he said, impressed him more profoundly than did the life of Christ.  He told his bishop this and the bishop reproved him for not being more loyal to Christ.  He replied that it was simply that Christ's life was further removed and so did not touch him so closely.  The quality of life he believed was the same.
One of the ladies described the evening when 'Abdu'l-Bahá returned to Haifa after His long journey through Europe and America in 1912.  When the ship anchored almost everyone in Haifa was down at the water's edge to greet Him, although people had been requested not to come because He was so very tired.  Some went aboard the ship, lifted Him in their arms and carried Him to the small boat for landing.
__________
Friday, 13 November.  Today at luncheon the subject of institutions was discussed.  Any idea or movement, Shoghi Effendi said, needs an institution.  For instance educational ideas must be carried out in schools, social and political movements find expression in institutions.  Inherently an institution is a necessary and a good thing.  The trouble creeps in when institutions, with the lapse of time, become corrupt.  Then they need to be renewed.
In the same way any movement needs a creed.  A creed is not a bad thing.  What is bad is when men add non-essentials to a creed.
The supposed quotation from 'Abdu'l-Bahá that the Bahá'í Cause is not an organization should read, "You cannot limit the Bahá'í Cause to an organization."  The Bahá'í Cause must be organized just as everything must be.  Institutions are necessary.  All institutions now are decadent, but without institutions we should have nothing but anarchy.  Bahá'ís regard institutions not as ends, but as means.
__________
Monday, 16 November.  Late this morning we drove in an automobile the nine miles drive around the edge of the Bay of 'Akká to the vicinity of 'Akká.
'Akká, the ancient fortress and prison city is a scene of some of the greatest tests as well as triumphs of the little group of leaders of the Bahá'í Cause in its early days.  Here
Page 20
seventy Bahá'ís, exiles from their native land, were sent by the Sultán of the Ottoman Empire in the hopes that this greatest prison would prove to be the end of the leaders and the religious faith which they were spreading.  Vermin infested, filthy in the extreme, it was a place where the worst criminals were sent to languish and die.  Strangely enough the little band of Bahá'ís after living herded together in an unspeakably filthy room in the prison for two years, suffering from malaria, as well as insufficient food and water, were given more liberties.  Instead of being forgotten, the Cause for which they were sacrificing their freedom spread.
The road lay along the sandy beach by the sea.  The day was clear and it was an especially impressive experience to ride on the sand with the sparkling blue sea on the left, past Arab fishermen drawing their nets, travellers on donkeys and camels as well as in motor cars.  The white buildings of the ancient city of 'Akká gleamed out as our journey's goal.  'Akká was Napoleon's goal when he came with his army from Egypt.  He hoped to make it the gateway to conquering the Near East, but found it instead an insurmountable obstacle which turned him back.
We had left Mount Carmel, where the Jewish prophets and Jesus walked, and ahead of us in the far distance we could see the snow-capped mountains of Lebanon.  Soon we arrived at the gates of the city of 'Akká.  At one time there were three walls around the city and the gates were closed at sundown.  Although now the entrance to the city is open at all times, we noticed as we went in the "needle's eye" a small opening in the wall beside the main gate about five feet high.  Late travellers could enter through this opening and their camels, too, if unloaded, could get in by a process of kneeling and squirming through.  The  streets of 'Akká are narrow and dirty, paved with worn stones and filled with men and women, mostly in Oriental garb, and children playing and fighting or going to the bakery with enormous flat trays filled with loaves of bread of a tannish hue, looking something like our pancakes.  The children's clothes, the streets and bread all shade into a light greyish tan hue and perhaps it is just as well not to be too germ conscious.
(To be continued)


XXIV:2, May 1933
page 57
Russia's cultural contribution to the Bahá'í Faith
Part II
Martha L. Root
This is the concluding part of the author's story of the Russian poet who gave to the world three celebrated writings about the Bahá'í Teachings.  Herein we find reference to the poets book on Bahá'u'lláh, her visit with 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Ramleh, Egypt, and further comment on the remarkable reception her books have received.
Now I shall speak of the tragedy poem Baha'u'llah.  Mrs Grinevsky wrote me how she received the inspiration to write it.  She said:  "Among the many letters which I received from unknown people, all writing me about my play, Bab was one from a gentleman who to my astonishment had a profound knowledge not only of the Báb but also of Bahá'u'lláh.  Like the Báb, until 1903, Bahá'u'lláh was generally unknown even among the cultured classes, professors sometimes asking me who my hero was.  Even one (Czarist) politician had once asked me, 'What is Bahá'u'lláh?'  Not who, mind you, but what!  So I was all the more impressed to hear from my Russian provincial correspondent the name of Bahá'u'lláh.  He said in his note:  'I was fascinated by the poem Bab like a youth though I am not a youth in years.  I have passed two faculties of the university and have in my library all the available works which appear in the literature of the world.'"
"He counselled me" Mrs Grinevsky says, "to compose a tragedy about the life of Bahá'u'lláh.  I myself had thought of it but had been so occupied I had never attempted it; now I determined to undertake this big work.  I always remember with gratitude the memory of this Russian gentleman who was not a Bahá'í but a man of great heart.  He passed on before my work was published, and I never met him.  His name was Nicolas Zazuline; he, as I knew, was president of the nobility in Kishinef and the author of several philosophical treatises."
She continues:  "When my work was finished and notices about it appeared in the press, a number of people who had assisted at the representations of my poem Bab and had heard my conferences about that poem which I gave many times, asked me to prepare a lecture about my new composition.  The first address about it was given in our summer capital Siestroretzk and afterwards I also lectured in the capital itself at the Society of Oratorical Arts' Hall, in the year 1910."
Mrs Grinevsky explained that when her Bahá'í correspondent of Báku, Mírzá 'Alí Akbar Mamedhanly, read in the newspapers that the work was finished, (he had known from her that it was being written) he asked to have a copy sent to him.  She mailed to him several excerpts from the poem.  A few weeks later she was amazed to receive a telegram from him saying:  "'Abdu'l-Bahá permits us to visit Him in Egypt."  'Abdu'l-Bahá was at that time making a short stay in Egypt.
She writes in her letter to me:  "That had been my secret, my innermost desire, to see with my own
Page 58
eyes those people whom I had described, who, as my correspondent said, 'love all mankind'.  I had thought it absolutely impossible, and yet, unexpectedly, wonderfully, it had come to pass that I could go to see even the greatest of those people!  I started from Russia with my manuscript of the poem Baha'u'llah in December 1910, my aim being to see the surroundings of my dreams, of my fancy, about which my former respectful correspondent and present fellow traveller in that journey to Egypt had spoken-to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá!"
__________
Seven years had passed between the appearance of the drama Bab and the concluding of the tragedy Bahá'u'lláh followed by this memorable journey.  Mrs Grinevsky spent two weeks in Ramleh, Egypt, as the guest of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  After she returned to Russia she had several letters or tablets from Him.  In one of these He speaks of an article which He had just received about her poem Baha'u'llah.  From the Tablet (or letter) addressed to Madame Grinevsky and signed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, I quote:
"The article which was published in the Saint Petersbourg Journal about thy recent book (Baha'u'llah) was in the utmost eloquence and fluency.  It was an indication of thy praiseworthy services.  The publication of such articles is very useful.  They are conducive to the promotion of the divine Call.  Praise be to God that thou art assisted in the service of the world of humanity and art spreading the summons of the Kingdom of God.  Day and night thou must praise God that thou art assisted to perform such a great service.  Rest thou assured that that which is the utmost desire1 of thy heart shall come to pass concerning this matter.
"This seed which thou has sowed shall grow.  If the means are not available at present, unquestionably they will become realized.  I pray in thy behalf that thou mayest become confirmed in the uninterrupted service of the Kingdom of God."
The article which 'Abdu'l-Bahá mentions in His tablet had been published in the French newspaper Journal de Saint Petersbourg January, 1912.  The headline was Baha'u'llah.  I quote paragraphs from this review:  Bahá'u'lláh means the Glory of God-such is the title of the new tragedy with which Mrs Isabel Grinevsky has enriched Russian dramatic literature.  We must praise without restriction a work whose high, dramatic significance is combined with admirable form.  The author of the drama Bab, that work of such strong thought, has never attained such a powerful conception as this poem.
"The mind of the reader, attracted by a rhythm of an unspeakably harmonious poetry, rises imperceptibly to summits where the most grave problems are discussed, problems over which thoughtful humanity bends with fear and despair, helpless to solve them.  The characters are analyzed with great psychological insight.
"Bahá'u'lláh, the central figure, is depicted with the clearness and power of an antique high-relief.  The complexity of that elect-nature is presented with the authority and truth of the great masters of the classical theatre.  What a lofty lesson, what eloquence Sursum corda2 in that life of pure bounty, of selflessness in that wide desire to spread peace!
"How not to be moved, fascinated by the nobility of this Apostolic character?
Page 59
"As in the Bab, the events touch the great religious movement which roused the country of Persia in the middle of the last century.  The historical part is exact.  Mrs Grinevsky did not limit herself to the studies of documents, the great quantity of which we can hardly imagine; she knows the country very well.  Her knowledge gives to the characters an intensive life and a warm colouring.
"The origin of a faith analyzed with the help of true science is carried forward with great art beginning with the first thought which moves the heart of the Apostle, who loves mankind as He loves His family and His own country.
"The author gives a vision, a revelation of all that is hidden of moving, precious depths in that supreme struggle.  The liberating pain, the majesty of effort, the active bounty-all these elements of that struggle remain ordinarily unattainable for the crowd which cannot fathom under their austere dogmas, one of the beautiful forms of human unity.
"The love, the deep necessity which lives in each human heart passes throughout the tragedy as an undercurrent, the fountain-head of which, never drying, remains hidden to the exterior world.
"That beautiful and bold work points a return to the school of majesty and aesthetic morality, the aspiration to the eternal truth, which are the indelible character of permanent works.  We foretell for this book a most merited success.  Humanity, be it to its credit, is tired of the histories of the impure which spoil the taste and soil the mind.  It cannot but receive with enthusiasm a work of which the most civilized countries of Europe will be proud."
__________
Mrs Grinevsky, returning from Ramleh in January 1911, gave interviews to the press at Odessa, the Russian port of the Black Sea, and as soon as she reached home she began her book, 'A Journey to the Countries of the Sun', which is an account of her visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This was interrupted because in the summer of 1912 she was called to Paris by the French translator of Bab, Madame Halperin.  When she came again to Leningrad she immediately began the publication of the drama Baha'u'llah so that it was not until 1914 that she completed the manuscript of "A Journey to the Countries of the Sun".  It is interesting to note that when she completed it, three Persians, Asadu'lláh Namdor of Moscow, 'Alí Akbar Kamalof of Tashkand and an old Persian Bahá'í friend whom she had met at Port Said came to call upon her and she read to them many parts from the "Journey", the central figure of which is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  This book of 550 pages has not yet been published because at this time the world war commenced; neither has it yet been translated into other languages.
May this great Russian poet, Mrs Isabel Grinevsky, who has made such a cultural contribution to literature and to the Bahá'í Movement some day see all her works translated into European languages!  The English reading world eagerly awaits them, I know, for many inquiries come from the United States asking where it is possible to get these books in Russian, in French, or in German!


XXIV:3, June 1933
page 84
'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to Budapest
Martha L. Root
The following article, which was translated into Hungarian by Mrs Irma Szirmai, appears as an introduction in the first Hungarian edition of Dr Esslemont's book, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, recently published in Budapest.  The translation of Dr Esslemont's book into Hungarian was made by Mr Georgy Steiner of Gyor, Hungary.
The readers of the Bahá'í Magazine will be interested to know of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's historic visit to Budapest, Hungary, from 9-18 April 1913.  Several distinguished statesmen, scholars and business men of Budapest hearing that 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Son of Bahá'u'lláh the great World Educator, was passing through Europe from the United States enroute to His home in Haifa, Palestine, sent a most cordial invitation urging Him to come to the Magyar Capital and speak of His Father's Teachings for the oneness of mankind and universal peace.
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá, this great teacher belonging to one of the noblest families of Persia, the illumined expounder of the Bahá'í Teachings, arrived at the railway station with His party, He was met by Dr Ignatius Goldziher, the renowned Orientalist; by Professor Julius Germanys, professor of Persian, Arabic and Turkish languages in the Oriental Institute of Budapest University; by Director Leopold Stark, a very well known engineer, and others.  They escorted Him to the Ritz Hotel1 where He took rooms facing the beautiful Danube River.  With Him were His Persian secretaries, Persian interpreter and two or three other companions.
A few minutes after their arrival, a delegation of citizens came to welcome this Eastern Visitor officially and He met them in a most friendly way in the lounge.  The group included Prelate Alexander Giesswein, one of the most honoured and learned thinkers and pacifists of Hungary, then President of the Peace Society and of the Hungarian Esperanto Society, Professor Robert A. Nadler, the renowned painter, the family of Director Stark and several others, among them an American and an Indian notable living in Budapest.  They addressed 'Abdu'l-Bahá saying:  "In the name of all present we welcome the blessed Presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  We admire your great life and we offer You our thanks and deep gratitude, that at Your age, You take upon Yourself these long journeys for the sake of helping and comforting humanity.  Such labours, such sacrifices as 'Abdu'l-Bahá endures are our great examples, that we may know how to live and to serve humanity."
This beloved Visitor responded that thanks be to God, He hoped all of them would be confirmed in the service to humanity!  He said that we can render no greater service to man than to spread unity in the world of mankind, and to work for universal peace.  He showed how, when the East was in black dark-
Page 85
ness and was surrounded on all sides by the gloom of fanaticism, Bahá'u'lláh arose like a sun from the sky of the East and proclaimed the unity of mankind.
Reporters were present and asked many questions about the Bahá'í Teachings for world understanding.  Members of the Theosophical Society invited 'Abdu'l-Bahá to speak at their meeting the next evening, 10 April.  Also, a joint invitation was extended to Him to give a public lecture 11 April, the event to be under the auspices of the Theosophical Society, the Women's organizations and the Esperantists.  'Abdu'l-Bahá smilingly accepted.
__________
Early the following morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá prepared tea Himself and praised the marvellous view from His window overlooking the broad, blue glistening Danube with its immense and wonderfully ornamented suspension bridges, its gaily decorated steamers and the beautifully laid out promenades.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá took a walk across one of these large bridges to Buda.  His personality and dignity attracted the attention of all who saw Him; many stopped to greet Him with reverence and to ask questions.
All day people visited Him in the hotel and He spoke with them about the spiritual unity of the East and the West.  He voiced to them this remarkable thought that it was his hope that Budapest might become a centre for the reunion of the East and West, and that from this city the light might emanate to other places.  He also said that thanks be to God the conception of spiritual life was alive in Budapest, that men search for truth, that they care for the Word of God and long to be guided to the Kingdom Everlasting.
When callers spoke to about the buildings and the sights of the Hungarian Capital, He kindly replied to them that He came to Budapest to see the objects of interest and buildings of human hearts, and not the buildings of stone and of the city.  He said to them speaking symbolically, that He knew of a Country in which there are glorious cities; that in that Country there is but one universal language spoken, and therefore, they would all understand one another without an interpreter.  He said they would see There His Holiness Christ and the Prophets and would find good people There just as were around Him here.  He told of the delicious fruits There and said they were for them.  His visitors were astonished, but when asked if they would like to go with Him to that beautiful Land, they replied:  Yes, we will go with you willingly!
__________
Professor Germanus, a young but already celebrated Orientalist, brought a group of young Turkish students to call upon 'Abdu'l-Bahá and these youth presented Him with a letter of solemn welcome signed by all students of the Turkish language in Budapest.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to them in perfect Turkish.  They marvelled at His eloquence and His command of this tongue.  He told them that it was His highest hope that the East and West might be united completely.  He made it very clear to them that in
Page 86
reality, East and West do not exist-that each point on this terrestrial globe is equal, with the same rights; that any point in relation to another point is either East or West; that all are points of one sphere, one country, one humanity.  Therefore, He said, He was very happy to visit this country of Hungary which is the standard bearer of progress to the East, and which unites with the Western culture the Eastern feelings of cordial hospitality to people of other countries.  He blessed them and hoped they would, day by day, become more confirmed in service and progress.
Others called and in the afternoon 'Abdu'l-Bahá visited the homes of several families.  He went, in the evening, to the Theosophical meeting where fifty people were awaiting Him.  The Chairman greeted Him in these words:  "We welcome 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the name of all our brothers and sisters, we are extremely happy that this blessed One has visited us. ..."
"'Abdu'l-Bahá replied that He was greatly pleased to address such a noble spiritual assembly.  He called them a noble, spiritual gathering because they were most diligent in their endeavours for peace and fellowship, and He spoke to them about the oneness of mankind.  His words were so appealing that the Chairman again thanked Him and in the name of all present invited Him to come to them again on Saturday evening, 12 April.  (He did go to this second meeting and all present again felt His mighty spirit, especially when He prayed for the people of Hungary; in closing He prayed that God would give them heavenly strength, surround them with heavenly happiness!)
__________
Only glimpses of events can be given in this brief introduction, but on the evening of 11 April, 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke in the old Parliament Building to more than one thousand people.  This great hall was formerly the Hall of the Parliament; it has two platforms, a higher and a lower, 'Abdu'l-Bahá stood on the higher one directly underneath the coat of arms of Hungary-those ancient, historical arms held by two white winged angels.  This great holy teacher was introduced to the audience by Prelate Giesswein as Dr Goldziher stood at 'Abdu'l-Bahá's right.  Suddenly the people, as if sensing the deep significance of the moment, burst into tremendous applause.  They felt, if they did not understand, that 'Abdu'l-Bahá standing between the Catholic Prelate and the Jewish Orientalist represented the reconciliation of these two great religions.
Dr Germanus who interpreted 'Abdu'l-Bahá's words into Hungarian said that he never saw a more interesting audience.  He said that all seats were occupied while many stood in the gallery; aisles and corridors were crowded and a line extended even to the street!  Members of Parliament, members of philosophical and philological societies, university professors, artists, Catholic priests, Protestant clergymen, representatives of modern religious movements, women's organizations, Esperantists, members of social and humanitarian so-
Page 87
cities, many nationalities, many races were present-in a word the gathering reflected the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh:  one must unite everything that is good and precious in mankind, one must give equality to women, must help the ignorant and oppressed and must lead all humanity to mutual understanding!
After the lecture many approached 'Abdu'l-Bahá to express to Him their reverence and their delight in what He had said to them.  His reply had in it one of the great truths of the Bahá'í Faith.  He told these eager listeners that the influence of the words spoken and the confirmation from the Kingdom of God are two perfectly different things:  the influence of spoken words on the soul, and the elevation of the soul which can be attained only by the blessing of the Heavenly Kingdom.  Words alone cannot bring the great spiritual transformations, only Bahá'u'lláh's favour and help and the victory of the Holy Spirit can give that great spiritual experience.
After the lecture a dinner was given for 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Hotel Pannonia.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá saw many friends at His hotel the following day, 12 April.  Mr Alajos Paikert, founder and Acting Vice President of the Turanian Society called and invited this great Visitor to give an address before the members of their society and friends, on Monday evening, 14 April, Mr Paikert who is also one of the founders of the Society for Foreign Affairs and organizer of the celebrated Agricultural Museum in Budapest (also of the Agricultural Museum in Cairo, Egypt) praised 'Abdu'l-Bahá's high aims for peace.  'Abdu'l-Bahá told him He hoped that he would attain great spiritual power and do much to promote peace and universal brotherhood.  He showed how many ways there are to unite souls but none has such a power as the Word of God.
This lecture arranged by the Hungarian Turanian Society took place in the majestic hall of the former House of Magnates in the National Museum Building.  As Mr Paikert told me:  "'Abdu'l-Bahá was introduced by me, and as He ascended the tribune and began to speak, the entire audience of two hundred prominent gentlemen and their ladies, listened breathlessly to Him.  He spoke in Persian and His thoughts were interpreted into English, and then Mr Leopold Stark gave them in Hungarian language.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke of the high culture of Turan about which He knew so well, and showed how it was destroyed by religious inharmony and conflicts.  He outlined a constructive plan for enduring peace.  When asked which place would be chosen for the centre of peace, 'Abdu'l-Bahá replied that it would be the country in which the standard of peace will be established first, that will be the centre!  After the lecture 'Abdu'l-Bahá took supper in the home of 'Alí Abbás Abhá Tabrízí, and the Turkish Consul was one of the guests.
"'Abdu'l-Bahá, next day, accepted the invitation to honour my home in Budapest with a visit," said Mr Paikert.  "He came with His friends and we gathered in our
Page 88
reception hall in my villa on the slope of God's Mountain, overlooking the Hungarian Capital.  He spoke with my family and friends in His mild, dear voice, about the high virtues of family life in the different countries, of lofty moral and spiritual ideals and of understanding among the nations.  We listened, deeply impressed by the extraordinary spiritual personality of 'Abdu'l-Bahá."
Several visits were made by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He went to the homes of Professor Nadler and of Mr Stark, and He visited the late Count Albert Apponyi in Buda.  These two discussed the highest problems of mankind.  The writer of this introduction interviewed Count Apponyi and heard him speak twice.  He said that his aim too, is an assured peace, based upon justice, peace of soul not at the mercy of unforseen political changes.  He said: "Hungary has been, as it were, on the high road of the conflicts that have shaken the world for centuries past.  If there is any nation to whose interest it is that a new order should be set up, based upon law and not upon force, upon concord and co-operation, and not upon rivalry, if there is any nation to whose special interest it is that peace should be established and consolidated, that nation is Hungary.  Peace is not an isolated problem.  It is a central star around which all other social problems revolve, as the planets revolve around the sun."
__________
Professor Arminius Vambery, the outstanding Orientalist and erudite scientist, whom both Queen Victoria and King Edward of Great Britain distinguished for many years with their friendship, invited 'Abdu'l-Bahá to his home several times.  In a subsequent letter of Professor Vambery to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, one feels the heat of a flame breaking forth from the heart of a man who has always sought for the great Truth.1
Professor Robert A. Nadler who in 1913, was Professor of Painting at the Royal Academy of Art (and later became Professor in the University of Technical Sciences) has painted a wonderful portrait of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He said to the writer of this introduction: "When I saw 'Abdu'l-Bahá, He was in His seventieth year.  I was so impressed and charmed with His Personality that I had the great longing to paint His portrait.  He consented to come to my studio, but said He could not give me much time because He was so busy.  I marvelled at His expression of peace and pure love and absolute good will.  He saw everything with such a nice eye; everything was beautiful to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, both the outer life of Budapest and the souls of all.  He praised the situation of our city, our fine Danube in the midst of the town, good water, good people.  Oh, He had so many beautiful thoughts I was inspired, and I knew I did not have much time, so I concentrated very much.  He gave me three sittings."
It will interest readers to know that 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself and His Persian companions said that the portrait was a success.  Professor
Page 89
Nadler is one of only two painters who ever had the opportunity to have 'Abdu'l-Bahá Himself sit for a portrait.  This painting is not only a strong likeness of showing His spiritual power and majesty, but every detail is pleasing.  His hand which has blessed and helped so many thousands is shown full of tenderness, the whole portrait vibrates in harmonious colours.  In the centuries to come, Hungary will be distinguished as the home of this historical portrait.  It now hangs in the Studio of Professor Nadler in the University of Technical Sciences in Budapest, and he says that he is so happy to have the Presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá always with Him in his studio!
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá was ill for two days as the cold weather and a sudden snow storm so unusual at that time of year, brought on a severe grippe.  However, He insisted on dressing and meeting all the friends who knocked at His door.  All the friends, including several families, came.  Among the many words that 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to them were these, that they must never forget the history of Bahá'u'lláh which He had related to them.  He showed them how much Bahá'u'lláh's Teachings had spread in the past sixty years, how the Bahá'í Movement is known in the East and in the West.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said that since He had been in Budapest He had set a flame aglow, and the day would break when its light would shine visibly to everybody.  He explained that the origin of a tree is only a small seed, but if it develops and begins to grow, it will bear a beautiful fruit.  'Abdu'l-Bahá told them that souls would come who would rejoice their hearts and the Cause of God would make great progress in Hungary.  He assured them that if they arose in the service of the holy Teachings as they should, that the Hosts of the Omnipotent would come to their assistance and they would be victorious.  When asked about meetings, He told them very clearly just how to arrange Bahá'í meetings.
On the morning of 18 April, 'Abdu'l-Bahá and His party went to the railway station to leave Hungary.  A great number of devoted friends were there to bid them farewell-many Hungarians and also some Turks, Americans, and Indians.  They were very sad that He must go, but He consoled them and asked them to follow the Holy Teachings, spread the Glad Tidings and lead people to unity.  Each one in his own language begged for a blessing in his endeavour to serve.  Then as the train moved out, they continued to gaze at His holy countenance with their arms outstretched in longing!


XXIV:3, June 1933
page 90
Glimpses of the New World Order
Part III
Notes on a visit to Haifa and 'Akká
Mabel and Sylvia Paine
"Yet in spite of all difficulties, he [Bahá'u'lláh] was ever in an exalted state; his face shone continually.  He had the presence of a king.  One cannot imagine such majesty.  One never thought of him as a prisoner-on the contrary, one would have said that he was enjoying the greatest triumph, for he drew his strength from divine power."1
The first instalment of these "Diary Notes" was published in the March number.  Therein the authors told of their arrival in Haifa, their meeting with Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause, and the members of the family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The second instalment published in the April number gave a description of their visit to 'Akká and the old prison quarters where Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá were incarcerated for so many years.  Herein is a further description of the barracks at 'Akká and a brief description of Bahjí the house in the country outside of 'Akká occupied by Bahá'u'lláh during the later years of His life.
From 'Akká we drove to the Garden of the Ridván, the garden which Bahá'u'lláh had made and which He frequented during all the latter years of His life after He had been freed from the strict imprisonment of 'Akká and when He occupied the house in the country known as Bahjí.
He Himself describes this garden in one of His works:
"One day of days We repaired unto Our Green Island.  Upon Our arrival, We beheld its streams flowing, and its trees luxuriant, and the sunlight playing in their midst."2  The vision which He there beheld was such that "the pen fails to describe".  Later He beheld in holy vision in this garden, "... one of the Beauties of the Most Sublime Paradise, standing on a pillar of light, and calling aloud saying:  'O inmates of earth and heaven!  Behold ye My beauty, and My radiance, and My revelation, and My effulgence.  By God, the True One!  I am Trustworthiness and the revelation thereof, and the beauty thereof. ...  I am the most great ornament of the people of Bahá, and the vesture of glory unto all who are in the kingdom of creation.  I am the supreme instrument for the prosperity of the world, and the horizon of assurance unto all beings.'"3
With such associations is the Ridván Garden hallowed.  The island which Bahá'u'lláh refers to is made by the separation and confluence of the river Belus [Na'mayn].  The flowing streams are little runlets of water from a fountain which plays at intervals.  These runlets flow through the centre of the garden under a large mulberry tree.  It was here Bahá'u'lláh used to sit.  Surrounding this central, most sacred portion are green lawns, borders of scarlet geraniums, lofty palms and other sub tropical trees.  In the gardener's house is the room which Bahá'u'lláh sometimes occupied containing His chair kept in a cedar box.
Page 91
From the Ridván we drove back to 'Akká.
The barracks where the Bahá'ís were thrown on their arrival in 1868 are thus described by the sister of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
"The season was summer (1868) and the temperature very high.  All our people were huddled together on the damp earth floor of the barracks; with little water to drink, and that very bad, with no water with which to bathe, and scarcely enough for washing their faces.  Typhoid fever and dysentery broke out among them.  Everyone in our company fell sick excepting my brother, an aunt, and two others of the believers.  We were not allowed a physician; we could not procure medicine.  My brother had in His baggage some quinine and bismuth.  With these two drugs and His nursing, He brought us all through with the exception of four who died.  These were two months of such awful horror as words cannot picture.  Imagine it if you can.  Some seventy men, women and children packed together, hot summer weather, no proper food, bad water, and a general attack of the terrible diseases of typhoid and dysentery.
"There was no one with strength to be of any general service but my brother.  He washed the patients, fed them, nursed them, watched with them.  He took no rest.  When at length He had brought the rest of us-the four who died excepted-through the crisis and we were out of danger, He was utterly exhausted and fell sick Himself, as did also my mother and the three others who had heretofore been well.  The others soon recovered, but Abbás Effendi1 was taken with dysentery and long remained in a dangerous condition.  By His heroic exertions He had won the regard of one of the officers, and when this man saw my brother in this state he went to the Governor and pleaded that Abbás Effendi might have a physician.  This was permitted and under the care of the physician my brother recovered."2
Bahá'u'lláh was confined in a separate room in these barracks and this room is now much altered and used as part of a prison hospital.  Over the door is a brass plate with a statement of Bahá'u'lláh's confinement there from 1868-1870.  One might think of the change in this scene of suffering as symbolic of the kindly action of the hand of time, which so often covers and beautifies a place otherwise too horrible for weak human hearts and minds to contemplate.  But surely the sincere soul cannot gaze upon the scenes of such dire sufferings and recall that they were endured patiently and even joyfully, without becoming very thoughtful concerning a faith thus cradled.
After two years spent in the barracks the Bahá'ís were removed to a fairly comfortable house with three rooms and a court.  The Governor of 'Akká had been so impressed with their lack of resentment, their kindness and uprightness, and their sorrow at being unable to meet the Bahá'í pilgrims who were constantly coming from Persia in order to meet Bahá'u'lláh that He allowed them this change and freedom to go and come in the city.  To this first real dwelling
Page 92
place of Bahá'u'lláh in 'Akká we now directed our footsteps.  Here we saw the room where Bahá'u'lláh wrote The Kitáb-i-Aqdas or Book of Laws.
Although the others had the freedom of the city Bahá'u'lláh was confined to the house.  Here He remained for seven years.  One day He remarked "I have not gazed on verdure for nine years.  The country is the world of the Soul, the city is the world of the bodies."  When 'Abdu'l-Bahá heard this remark He felt moved, in spite of the strict imprisonment, to prepare a place for Bahá'u'lláh in the country.  This He accordingly did, renting a large house on the plains of 'Akká from an absentee landlord at a very low price, sending labourers to put the garden in order and repair the house and finally, in spite of the strict injunction to the contrary, walking out through the city gate.
Father and Son both seemed possessed of the same kind of power that shone out from Christ, the power that the people felt when no one dared to lay hands on Him for His hour was not yet come.  At first Bahá'u'lláh was reluctant to use this power, but finally yielded to the entreaties of a certain Muslim Shaykh, who loved Him very much and pleaded persistently that He go out from His long imprisonment.  There the rest of His days were spent in that "world of the soul" He so loved.1
__________
It was to Bahjí the second house He occupied on the plain of 'Akká that we next drove.  This house has within a few years come into the possession of the Bahá'ís and has been restored by Shoghi Effendi to the condition in which it was during the time of Bahá'u'lláh.  Here we spent the evening and night.  Near Bahjí is the shrine in which lie the remains of Bahá'u'lláh.  Its court contains an indoor garden of fresh greenness, trees pushing up to the open skylight which lets in the gentle motion of outdoor air, vines embroidering all with luxuriant leaf and blossom.  Between the shrine and the house are broad stretches of lawn, lofty trees, flowered borders.  Everything shows signs of perfect care and cultivation, such care and cultivation as come from deep devotion.  About all is an atmosphere of deep, creative peace.  One is reminded involuntarily of the scriptural lines with their beautiful symbolism:  "the Valley of Achor2 (shall be) a place for the herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me."3
In these beautiful gardens and lawns around the shrine one sees a new and unique kind of place of worship, one which extends the atmosphere of the sanctuary to the surrounding out-of-doors.  The spiritual charm of this arrangement at Bahjí is that the brilliant and stately beauty of the surrounding gardens gently woos the soul away from earthly thought and prepares it for the yet more intense spirituality of the shrine itself.  Just in front of the shrine are many interlacing paths where one may prolong the time of preparation before stepping from the kindly beauty of nature to the more lofty and searching worship which the shrine itself inspires.
Page 93
It was in the house at Bahjí that Bahá'u'lláh received Prof. Edward G. Browne the distinguished Orientalist from the University of Cambridge who was the first person to come from the Western world to investigate the Bahá'í Faith.  Before entering the room in which this significant event took place, the visitor may pause and read from the framed copy hanging beside the door Prof. Browne's account of this meeting.  The large apartment with its low divan and few chairs is just as it was on that memorable occasion.  Fresh jasmine blossoms strewn on a white square of cloth mark the place where sat the wondrous and venerable figure of Bahá'u'lláh.  Of this meeting Prof. Browne wrote:  "The face of him on whom I gazed I can never forget, though I cannot describe it.  Those piercing eyes seemed to read ones very soul; power and authority sat on that ample brow; while the deep lines on the forehead and face implied an age which the jet-black hair and beard flowing down in indistinguishable luxuriance almost to the waist seemed to belie.  No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as I bowed myself before one who is the object of a devotion and love which kings might envy and emperors sigh for in vain!"1
As we entered the room we seemed to realize somewhat the tremendous power which sustained those early followers of Bahá'u'lláh, the power which centred in Him placing Him among those few who, as Carlyle puts it, "through having a higher wisdom, a hitherto unknown spiritual truth are stronger than all that have it not."
The words which Bahá'u'lláh uttered on this memorable occasion reveal this higher Wisdom which He possessed.  They have been often quoted but are so great and timely that they should ring in the ears of every one in these disastrous days, spurring us on to attain a new world order!
"We desire but the good of the world and happiness of the nations; yet they deem us a stirrer up of strife and sedition worthy of bondage and banishment. ...  That all nations should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men should be strengthened; that diversity of religion should cease, and differences of race be annulled-what harm is there in this? ...  Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and the 'Most Great Peace' shall come. ...  Do not you in Europe need this also?  Is not this that which Christ foretold?"2
(To be continued)


XXIV:3, June 1933
page 93
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"O ye people of the world!  The virtue of this Most Great Manifestation is that We have effaced from the Book whatever was the cause of difference, corruption and discord, and recorded therein that which leads to unity, harmony and accord.  Joy unto those who practice!"


XXIV:4, July 1933
page 103
An interview with Abdu'l-Bahá
Mary Hanford Ford
The author, a pioneer American Bahá'í, has made the teaching of the Bahá'í Cause her life work.
In these difficult days when the entire economic system of the world is in confusion, and when ordinary life has become so hectic as to be almost unbearable, I am reminded again of the memorable visit I made to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the prison of 'Akká, Palestine in 1907.  He had been held there as a prisoner ever since He was incarcerated with the family of Bahá'u'lláh after their exile from Persia.
The great story of the Bahá'í Cause was just beginning to be recognized at that time, and very little of its spiritual and economic teaching was translated and known in the Western World.  People who heard the strange tale of the distinguished prisoner of 'Akká often hastened to visit Him.  He was held there by the Sultán of Turkey because He taught ideas out of harmony with the prevailing creed of Islám though in perfect accord with the system of Muhammad Himself.
These people returned to the Western World with such strangely varying accounts of their interviews, so evidently coloured by their own previous conceptions and theories, that one felt confused and realized that any sacrifice was desirable through which one might visit the prison of 'Akká and speak face to face with its illumined inmate.
So like many others I journeyed across the seas and presented myself at the door of 'Akká on the date upon which 'Abdu'l-Bahá had given me permission to come.  I did not know then, what I only learned some time later, that at this very moment, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was enduring especially rigorous persecution.  He had been living for some years as a political prisoner in His own house within the walls of the town and was even permitted at times to visit Haifa and the Bahjí, where was the tomb of Bahá'u'lláh.  But the powerful Muslim priesthood of Persia and Turkey had long been determined to accomplish His martyrdom and, enraged at His continued escape from this, they finally sent the police to His home, just one month before my arrival, commanded every guest to leave the place instantly, and forbade 'Abdu'l-Bahá to receive any western friends henceforth.  Meanwhile a questionnaire was drawn up to be sent to 'Akká by a special committee.  According to its plan if 'Abdu'l-Bahá filled out the questionnaire His answers would be so incriminating, that there could be no difficulty in obtaining the Sultán's signature for His sentence of death.  All these danger threats were in the background of my rendezvous with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, but I knew nothing of them.
__________
At that time I had heard various histories of the emotional experiences of those who came into the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá at 'Akká.
Page 104
Some had fainted, some had fallen at His feet in uncontrollable weeping, all of which behaviour I was sure disturbed Him greatly.  So I considered carefully how I might avoid such calamitous exhibitions.  I was familiar with the story of Victor Hugo and his antagonists of the classic drama in 1830.  I remembered that the young Romanticists selected the word Iron as indicative of their invincibility and self control in contact with their classic opponents.  Cold, impenetrable as iron, they met their enemies, successfully.  So I decided when I came into the presence of if my lips began to tremble and my knees to shake, I would mentally repeat the little word Iron, Iron and become unimpressionable as its black substance.  Of course had I prayed at such a moment the emotional disturbance would have been intensified instead of eliminated.
Sure enough as the wonderful figure of 'Abdu'l-Bahá appeared in the doorway the expected result arrived with Him, but I gazed upon Him, squaring my shoulders, while my mind fastened itself purely upon the black little word Iron, Iron!  Can I ever forget how He looked at me with laughing eyes, and began to relate all the tortuous journey that had brought me to 'Akká, meeting plague and quarantine at every port, and pouring out the contents of my thin pocket book, until it seemed as if nothing would be left in it if I ever reached the bleak walls of the ancient town.
He laughed at me saying:  "Many people come here in a gala journey.  They stop at the best hotels.  They come here when they have nothing to fear, they travel in a company of friends and are a gay crowd!  They do not realize they are on a pilgrimage to a holy place-and that they must pray much before they can understand it.  If they do not pray before arriving, they must pray after they come here, but you have been forced to pray for guidance during the entire route, and so you are filled with the sense of prayer.  You have lived and attained only through prayer."
Then he went on telling one amusing story after another, perceiving all the perturbation of my poor nerves, until my knees no longer shook and I was at peace.
But one thing was registered disconsolately in my mind:  This radiant and powerful person, this centre of wisdom and love!  I knew that I could never ask Him a question, and how should I ever discover all the facts I wanted to know about His great teachings, those teachings which were not yet in printed words for the world to study, but the realities of which were constantly pouring into my consciousness.
Then began the marvellous days which followed, days which transformed and rebuilt, creating certainties from doubts, and eternal realities from ephemeral possibilities.
Can I ever forget the setting of this phenomenal drama?  A little gallery ran all around the second story upon which the family of 'Abdu'l-Bahá lived, and each chamber opened upon the gallery.  Also the door of each room was a different and gay colour.  There were pink, yellow, green and white doors, but no black ones.  I asked once why the
Page 105
doors were all different colours, and was told it was because the family never had money enough for more than one door at a time in those dark and dubious days of imprisonment!
The little room in which I stayed and in which the significant conversations with 'Abdu'l-Bahá took place, was of the simplest description.  The floor was covered with matting, the narrow iron bed and the iron wash stand with larger and smaller holes for bowl and pitcher were of that vermin proof description with which I had become familiar.  Everything was scrupulously clean, and there was an abundant supply of sparkling water for bathing and drinking.  A wide window looked over the huge town wall upon the blue Mediterranean and before this stretched a divan upon which 'Abdu'l-Bahá sat when He came to see me.
__________
Upon my arrival in 'Akká my mind was filled with pain caused by the vivid description I had heard in Paris of another terrible martyrdom of Bahá'ís that had occurred in Persia.  These martyrdoms continued from the period of the Báb's Declaration until the advent of the present Sháh of Persia, who put an end to all religious persecutions.  The description of these particular atrocities was so detailed that finally I could bear no more and cried out my protest, exclaiming "but don't you realize that the martyrs are in a state of bliss from the moment the torture begins, and feel none of the pain inflicted upon them?"
Where upon the assembled company turned upon me in deep disgust, and reproached me severely saying:  "How dare you say such things!  You are taking away all the glory of martyrdom!"
I remained abashed but not convinced, and felt that I must ask 'Abdu'l-Bahá for the settlement of this disturbing question, but I never asked it.  The first morning that He came into my little room He did not sit down, but walked back and forth in the narrow space and presently remarked, while I listened with awe, "There are many kinds of martyrdom.  How many times have I prayed for it, but instead of that I have lived on in prison as if with the sword of Damocles suspended by a hair over my head!  Each morning as I waken I feel that before the day ends I may be dragged to the public square and shot to death.  But nevertheless I have been very happy in this long martyrdom, for no victim suffers from the cruelties inflicted upon him.  The instant the torture begins he is in a state of bliss, and feels nothing but the joy of Heaven which surrounds him."
He paused, looking out through the wide windows at the blue Mediterranean, the view of which beyond the huge walls seemed to eliminate their imprisoning power.  Then he added, "So Christ never suffered upon the cross.  From the time the crucifixion began His soul was in Heaven and He felt nothing but the Divine Presence. He did not say, speaking in Aramaic:  'O God; O God why hast Thou forsaken me?'  But this word Sabacthani is similar in sound to another which means glorify, and he actually murmured, 'O God!  O God!  How thou dost glorify me.'"
Page 106
Then He repeated to me such a story of martyrdom as I have never heard elsewhere and which I have not time to relate here.  But I can never forget its dramatic expression of joyous deathlessness.
__________
Of all these hours spent with 'Abdu'l-Bahá however, the most memorable and eloquent were those in which He described the economic future of mankind.  At that period, in 1907 the labour saving machines had not yet affected the labour market to a serious extent, nor produced what must be generally recognized as a high degree of permanent unemployment but the change was working and 'Abdu'l-Bahá well understood its righteous conclusion.
Sometimes He sat still as He discoursed, speaking in that marvellous, colourful voice, such as none has used I am sure since Christ talked upon the mountainside or in the homes of His friends.  Then He would rise in the excitement of what He portrayed, and walk back and forth conscious of nothing but the ideals which possessed Him.
He said:  "Today the dynamic energy of the Holy Spirit has poured in such volume through the Messenger of God that even the masses of men have received it, and that was not possible before.  Always in the past specially sensitized souls received the influence and acted upon it.  But today for the first time the minds of all people have been touched by the spirit, and the result is that the designs of labour saving machines have been clearly revealed to them.  It may seem strange to you that the Holy Spirit should give designs for labour saving machines," he added, "but in reality every creative impulse of the brain can arise only through contact with the spirit.  Without that the brain is merely capable of conventional and traditional action.
"The civilizations of the past have all been founded upon the enslavement of mankind and the poor working class has suffered every oppression for the sake of the enrichment of the few.  This limited wealthy class has alone had the privilege of developing individuality.  The down trodden worker after labouring long hours each day, has not had sufficient mental capacity at the conclusion of his task to do anything but eat and sleep.
"That all mankind might have opportunity, it was necessary to shorten the hours of labour so that the work of the world could be completed without such demand of strain and effort, and all human beings would have leisure to think and develop individual capacity.
"The labour saving machines were given to create leisure for all mankind."  'Abdu'l-Bahá repeated this several times.  He was so deeply impressed with this fact that as He spoke He arose and walked back and forth in the little room, His face and eyes shining with joy over the happy future into which He gazed.
"The first decided shortening of the hours will appear," He declared, "when a legal working day of eight hours is established," and this of course took place in 1917 when Woodrow Wilson enacted the legal day of eight hours for all federal workers, and really for the workers of the United States.
"But this working day of eight hours is only the beginning," went
Page 107
on 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "Soon there will be a six hour day, a five hour, a three hour day, even less than that, and the worker must be paid more for this management of machines, than he ever received for the exercise of his two hands alone."
Speaking in 1907, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "You cannot understand now, how the labour saving machines can produce leisure for mankind because at present they are all in the hands of the financiers and are used only to increase profits, but that will not continue.  The workers will come into their due benefit from the machine that is the divine intention, and one cannot continue to violate the law of God.  So with the assurance of a comfortable income from his work, and ample leisure for each one, poverty will be banished and each community will create comfort and opportunity for its citizens.  Education will then be universal at the cost of the state, and no person will be deprived of its opportunity."  All these eloquent words and many others which I have not time to note here, were spoken to me by 'Abdu'l-Bahá without the asking of a single question.  His utterance, as always, was directed toward the inner urge of the mind He addressed, and He was perfectly aware that the mentality seeking Him at the moment was deeply interested in the problem of banishing poverty.
__________
There is not space to mention many incidents connected with this visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  One was very curious.  Invariably as I sat with Him I was conscious of a growing lightness of body, so that I said to myself, if He stays much longer, I shall not be able to keep my feet on the floor, I shall float up to the ceiling!  Invariably then He rose and swiftly left the room with that rapid gliding movement which made one feel He was flying rather than walking.  On the last day of my visit He left me in this fashion, and I stood by the little table in the centre of the room.  As I gazed after Him the words flashed through my mind, "I have been here, I have seen Him, and everything is just as I knew it would be.''  'Abdu'l-Bahá paused on the threshold looked back at me with His eyes full of laughter and repeated the words that had in the same instant passed through my mind:  "You have been here, you have seen me and everything is just as you knew it would be!"
The wonderful words He said to me in farewell I can never forget.  In expressing my profound appreciation for all His gracious kindness to me and the wealth of knowledge and illumination he had given me, I finally cried out, "O 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  Why cannot all the world come here to see You as I have done and receive this understanding of life and its meaning, this light of the Spirit!"
He looked at me for a moment with a sort of sadness, and then replied, "Dearly beloved, many people cross the ocean and cross the desert and come here to see me.  They stay sometimes a week-a month-a year and then they go away.  They have not seem me at all."  He paused a moment with a far away look in His eyes and added, smiling as He took my hands-"It is better to meet me in the worlds of love!"


XXIV:4, July 1933
page 126
Glimpses of the New World Order
Part IV
Notes on a visit to Haifa and 'Akká
Mabel and Sylvia Paine
"O ye people of the world!  The virtue of this most great Manifestation is that We have effaced from the Book whatever was the cause of differences, corruption and discord, and recorded therein that which leads to unity, harmony and concord.  Joy unto those who act in accordance therewith!" 1
In this fourth instalment, the conversation of Shoghi Effendi to the pilgrims is on the subjects of international government and education, especially with reference to an important letter written by Shoghi Effendi to the American Bahá'ís, later published under the title The Goal of a New World Order.  The first and second instalments of these "Notes" were published respectively in the March and April numbers, and told of their arrival in Haifa and the meeting with Shoghi Effendi and the members of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's family; also of their visit to 'Akká and the old prison quarters where Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Their followers were incarcerated so many years with unspeakable hardships and sufferings.  The third instalment which appeared in the June number gave a further description of the barracks at 'Akká and a brief description of Bahjí.
__________
Tuesday, 17 November.  Shoghi Effendi told us a little of the last and happiest part of Bahá'u'lláh's life spent at Bahjí, visited by us the previous day.  It was there that He wrote the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf in which He summarized His former Writings.  He died in that same room in which He met Prof. Browne.  His death was the peaceful ending of a life Whose constantly extending influence our generation but faintly comprehends when it comprehends at all.
The conversation dwelt a little on prayer and Shoghi Effendi emphasized the importance of an unconstrained approach to God.  Pour out your heart freely and fully.  Then do something.  God cannot work through you unless you act.  Of prayer for health he said that prayer helps, but we must not lose sight of the fact that ill health may be good.  Suffering, he thought very helpful both to individuals and nations.  What is important is to pray always with a willingness for God's will to be done.
Apropos of the recent death of Dr Forel, the distinguished Swiss scientist, and the publication of his will, in which he declared himself a Bahá'í, we discussed Dr Forel's idea of God and the Bahá'í idea of God.  Bahá'ís believe in a personal God.  This of course does not imply an anthropomorphic God, but a conscientiousness God.
__________
Wednesday, 18 November.  At tea with the ladies the talk was about our plans to go to Nazareth, Jerusalem, and other places of interest in Palestine.  The ladies told how 'Abdu'l-Bahá always longed to go to Jerusalem but never was able.  One time He asked some one who was going to Jerusalem to touch its walls for Him, to touch the walls of that city made sacred by Christ's sufferings.  I have heard a Bahá'í returned from a visit to Haifa in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's life time tell how 'Abdu'l-Bahá told him when he was in Jerusalem to walk the Via Dolorosa.  This Bahá'í said he never could describe to any one the depth and the poignancy of the experience as he trod that way.
Page 127
But today all who had been to Jerusalem agreed there was another side to it.  One said she always felt oppressed with another sorrow when she came near Jerusalem, a sorrow caused by the strife of the sects.  Not so different a sorrow after all from what pierced the heart of Christ as He walked His Via Dolorosa, for did He not pray that same night before He parted from His followers, "Not for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; that they all may be one?"  The strife of the sects, not the oneness for which the world is sick unto death, we found in Jerusalem.
But the open country with its simple villages, its vineyards, the survival of ancient modes of travel and labour, its rugged hills, still are the ideal setting for Hebrew and Christian story[s] and many a cherished phrase from the Psalms and many an incident from the life of Christ came vividly to mind as we drove from Nazareth to Jerusalem, Bethlehem, the Jordan River, and the Sea of Galilee.
__________
Monday, 23 November.  Shoghi Effendi is writing a general letter1 to the Bahá'í friends of the Occident.  We have the privilege of getting glimpses of its growth.  Evidently it will emphasize political conditions of the world at large, show their inevitable progress toward another world war, after which will emerge the new world state.  He spoke of Bahá'u'lláh's prophecy revealed in 1878, in which He refers to the turmoil and agitation of the world, its waywardness and irreligion, as it hastens to a plight too grievous to be disclosed.  The prophecy ends with a beautiful promise of the unfurling of the Divine Standard.
At last appears on the horizon the "parliament of nations" the "federation of the world".  Americans particularly should be much interested in two passages in this great document which has just come from the pen of Shoghi Effendi:  one giving the interview between 'Abdu'l-Bahá and an American congressman, in which answers the congressman's question, "How can I best serve my country?" with the reply, "if you strive, in your capacity as a citizen of the world, to assist in the eventual application of the principle of federalism underlying the government of your own country to the relationships now existing between the peoples and nations of the world,"1 and the passage in which Shoghi Effendi compares the formation of the future world state to the unification of the states of the North American continent.  "It would indeed be no exaggeration," he writes, "to say that the absence of those facilities which modern scientific progress has placed at the service of humanity in our time made of the problem of welding the American states into a single federation, similar though they were in certain traditions, a task infinitely more complex than that which confronts a divided humanity in its efforts to achieve the unification of all mankind."2
In this latter passage one sees the
Page 128
dominant spirit of faith which animates the Guardian of the Bahá'í Cause as it did 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Who replied to those "few, unaware of the power latent in human endeavour, consider this matter [true civilization, universal peace through a federation of the governments of the world] as highly impracticable, nay even beyond the scope of man's utmost efforts.  Such is not the case, however.  On the contrary, thanks to the unfailing grace of God, the loving-kindness of His favoured ones, the unrivalled endeavours of wise and capable souls, and the thoughts and ideas of the peerless leaders of this age, nothing whatsoever can be regarded as unattainable.  Endeavour, ceaseless endeavour, is required.  Nothing short of an indomitable determination can possibly achieve it.  Many a cause which past ages have regarded as purely visionary, yet in this day has become most easy and practicable.  Why should this most great and lofty Cause-the daystar of the firmament of true civilization and the cause of the glory, the advancement, the well-being and the success of all humanity-be regarded as impossible of achievement?  Surely the day will come when its beauteous light shall shed illumination upon the assemblage of man."3
__________
Monday, 23 November.  The conversation at tea this afternoon was about schools.  The Bahá'í teachings emphasize universal education and the equality of men and women.  As these principles are new to Oriental Bahá'ís and difficult for them to apply, the women of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's family feel an especial obligation to observe them conscientiously by giving their children a very complete education.  This often means sending them to Europe, as educational opportunities there are greater than in the Near East.  Often these young people have to transfer from one school to another.  These transfers are difficult, as there is not even so uniform a curriculum as in Europe and America.  One of the interesting points in the Bahá'í educational program is that it calls for "a standard, universal system of instruction."  This will certainly make for greater convenience as well as furthering the attainment of the more important ideals of mutual understanding, sympathy and unity among different nations, races and between the sexes.
(To be continued)


XXIV:5, August 1933
page 144
Glimpses of the New World Order
Part V
Notes on a visit to Haifa and 'Akká
Mabel and Sylvia Paine
This instalment will conclude these "Diary Notes" which have appeared from month to month consecutively beginning in the March number.  We regret that we were not able, for lack of space, to publish these informing "Notes" in full.
__________
Tuesday, 24 November.  A young pilgrim asked advice about studying the Bahá'í literature.  Shoghi Effendi recommended an intensive study of The Kitáb-i-Íqán by Bahá'u'lláh and Some Answered Questions by 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  These books will repay thorough study, mastery, even to the point of memorizing certain passages.  It is well, too, to read contemporary books, selecting the best, dealing with the same subjects, in order to become thoroughly acquainted with the subject and be able to clarify the Bahá'í teachings.  The Dawn-Breakers, a narrative of early events in the Bahá'í movement recently translated by Shoghi Effendi will also repay careful study.  This book was written between 1890 and 1892 with the encouragement of Bahá'u'lláh, Who made some suggestions to the author, Nabíl.
Page 145
'Abdu'l-Bahá revised certain passages in the book.  It shows that the Bahá'í Faith has already its noble army of martyrs and the parts which introduce Bahá'u'lláh and the Báb are priceless material translated with extreme beauty and power.
Someone asked whether Bahá'ís should support the League of Nations and Shoghi Effendi replied that the League is not on the foundation that it should be to be the ultimate league, but that it will develop into that.  As far as possible, without becoming involved in politics Bahá'ís should support it.
__________
Wednesday. 25 November.  Today we talked a little about food and health.  In Some Answered Questions 'Abdu'l-Bahá shows that health is a matter of proper balance of the numerous elements in the human body.  When this balance is disturbed disease enters.  The readjustment can be effected by foods or by medicines.  When the science of medicine becomes perfected, doctors can supply the missing element through foods.  But in the meantime, Shoghi Effendi pointed out, we are in a confused and transitional state.  Consequently it is better not to be dogmatic on the subject.  The Bahá'í teachings, in this as in other matters, stress loyalty to science.  Thus 'Abdu'l-Bahá always advised people in ill health to consult an expert doctor.
__________
Friday, 27 November.  This is the tenth anniversary of the passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  About six p.m. we went across the street to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's house.  We were to enter His room, the room whence His spirit passed to the heavenly realm.  A group of women were gathered outside the door, waiting to go in.  They went in one by one and knelt with beautiful reverence at the bedside where the tired body of the great Servant of God and of mankind last lay.  Little incidents of His last days came to my mind.  How full of generous kindness and servitude, though the body was well nigh exhausted!  His insisting on gathering the garden fruit with His own hand, though He ate it, seemingly, largely to please the gardener.  How having eaten of the fruit He turned to the gardener and asked, "'Do you desire anything more?'  Then with a pathetic gesture of His hands touchingly, emphatically and deliberately said:  'Now, it is finished, it is finished!'"1  His receiving visitors and showing them extraordinary courtesy on the last evening of His life, giving them presents, going with them to the door.
As 'Abdu'l-Bahá passed away at one-fifteen in the morning, the memorial service held each year occupies the evening and night up to about two.  About eight-thirty we walked up the side of Mt. Carmel to the shrine.  It was a night of full moonlight with many soft white clouds.  Across the bay 'Akká looked like a diadem in the heavens.  We found gathered around the shrine and on the broad south terrace a considerable group of Bahá'ís.  This terrace, we were told, was a favourite walk of the Master's.  Soon all went within the shrine and listened while different Bahá'ís, one at a time chanted prayers.  One of the most beautiful prayers chanted was the one re-
Page 146
vealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to be chanted at His shrine beginning:
"He is the All-Glorious!
"O God, my God!  Lowly and tearful, I raise my suppliant hands to Thee and cover my face in the dust of that Threshold of Thine, exalted above the knowledge of the learned, and the praise of all that glorify Thee."1
After coming out from the shrine all sat on benches and chairs on the terrace and listened to the chanted recital of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's last days and His funeral, as related in the touching account written by Shoghi Effendi and Lady Blomfield.  The funeral, we recalled, had drawn together an immense concourse of mourners from all over Palestine from the High Commissioner and other officials and heads of various religious communities to the vast multitude of all sorts and conditions who reverenced and loved Him.  For 'Abdu'l-Bahá had been a kind father to all in that region.
After this long and beautiful chant on the terrace, beautifully lighted both with electric lights and with the soft moonlight, all went again into the shrines and, during exquisite chanting of prayers, felt again the mighty power of the Servant of God, Who through His supreme and lifelong exemplification of the spirit of servitude made plain to the world the very heart of the Bahá'í teachings.
__________
Tuesday, 1 December.  At luncheon today Shoghi Effendi spoke of the great future which lies ahead of Germany and Russia.  A reaction will come eventually in favour of religion and against democracy.
Touching upon the main idea of his letter to the Bahá'ís of the West, called the "Goal of the New World Order" that "the principle of the Oneness of Mankind-the pivot round which all the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh revolve" is more than "the enunciation of an ideal" and "stands inseparably associated with an institution adequate to embody its truth, demonstrate its validity, and perpetuate its influence",2 he spoke of the necessity for a new world order.  This new world order cannot rise while national sovereignty is still so strong.
The immediate future for humanity, he said, is indeed dark, but in the not very distant future shines an infinitely better social and political order.  Thus our last days at Haifa gave us bright glimpses of "the New World Order visualized by Bahá'u'lláh-a World Order that shall reflect, however dimly, upon this earthly plane, the ineffable splendours of the Abhá Kingdom."3


XXIV:9 December 1933
page 261
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"The advent of Christ on this earth was a blessed day for it was the clay on which the Sun of Reality dawned; the day on which all beings were revivified.  In the world's calendar, it was the beginning of a Heavenly Spring.''


XXIV:10 January 1934
page 303
Haifa calling
Florence E. Pinchon
'Abdu'l-Bahá, as early as 1914 when Syria was still in the possession of the Turks, made remarkable prophecies about the commercial development of the harbour of Haifa.  As so significant a part of the prophecy has now come to pass, it is easy to conceive as its complete fulfilment the vision of the magnificent metropolis which will one day arise from the slopes and approaches of Mt. Carmel.  Haifa, because of its geographic situation, possesses such immense advantages for commerce with the Hinterland of the Near East that in the future it may well become the chief emporium of Western Asia.
"Some day 'Akká and Haifa will be connected as one large city, with a long breakwater sheltering harbour and docks, and a driveway, through orange groves, skirting the sea.  The ships of all nations will be seen here, commerce will thrive, and the Bay of 'Akká will be the centre of the pilgrimage of the world the sovereignty of world reverence."  'Abdu'l-Bahá
It was a thrilling moment when, on the morning of the 31 October 1933, we paused in the business of the day, to listen to the voice of Haifa, Palestine, calling the British Isles.
The broadcast was taking place on the occasion of the opening, by the High Commissioner of Palestine, of the new harbour, whose construction now makes the port of Haifa one of the finest and most sheltered havens in the Mediterranean.
However, to Bahá'ís generally, the ceremony meant something far more than the mere inauguration of a harbour.  For not only does it mark the opening of a new door between the Eastern and Western worlds-in itself an event of outstanding consequence both to world communications and world relations-but to those who could trace, however dimly, the working out of a divine plan and purpose, the happening seemed fraught with a profound spiritual significance.
The masterly description given in the broadcast of the beautiful and historic scene in which the ceremony took place, with all its ancient and sacred associations, and now its new world importance, filled one with a deep content.  For were we not actual witnesses of the beginning of the fulfilment of those glowing predictions, uttered long ago by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, concerning the brilliant destiny that awaited this, the home of His life long exile and labours?
Authoritative writers suggest that the immediate future is likely to witness a re-awakening of the whole of the region formerly known to us as Asia Minor.  In Palestine this renaissance is already well begun, with its radiating point at the port of Haifa.  Symbolic of this progressive spirit, the new harbour here will constitute a landmark in the annals of world intercourse, and play a leading part in the developments that are taking place in the Near and Middle East.
The ancient town of Haifa lies on the southern horn of a magnificent bay, three miles deep and nine miles wide, just where the green promontory of Mt. Carmel breaks the two hundred miles of inhospit-
Page 304
able coast line and yellow sand dunes stretching northwards from Port Said.
At the other extremity of the bay, the grey fortress of 'Akká-the Acre of the Crusades, and Christianity's last stronghold in Palestine-stands out into the blue Syrian Sea.  The great semi-circular harbour so formed is now spanned by a breakwater about one and a half miles long, which runs out from Rasel Kerim at the northern extremity of the base of Mt. Carmel, eastwards, in a line parallel to the town front.  The leeside of the harbour is formed by another breakwater, about half a mile long, running out at right angles to the main one.  The sheltered haven so constituted encloses an area about the size of Genoa harbour, and can afford accommodation to every class of vessel navigating the Levant.
Yet contrary to what has happened in the case of most other seaports, the harbour does not overshadow the town, but has been designed to suit the landscape and fit with due proportion into the whole noble picture.
All who have visited this spot seem to agree that, as Sir Cunliffe Lister observed in his reply from London to the High Commissioner, it is a monument to British engineering genius, and an achievement of which they may be justly proud.  And, in this connection, it may not be without interest to note, that if two imaginary lines were drawn across the globe, passing through the widespread British dominions and colonies, they would quite naturally meet and intersect at this point of the Holy Land.  While Haifa, in the near future, is likely to become an important naval, land and air base of the Empire.
__________
Yet in spite of its unique position and rich associations, until
Page 305
within quite recent years this particular part of the Near East has lain all neglected and forgotten by men.
In the days of the Canaanites, Haifa was known as Shikmona, and later, to the Jews, as Hepha or haven.  Among the Medes and Phoenicians it was famed as an important station on the highroads of the nations.  For Nature appears to have endowed it with advantages granted to no other seaport on the Eastern Mediterranean.
About half a century ago, a group of prominent Englishmen, recognizing the immense possibilities of this locality, agitated for the cession of Haifa to Great Britain.  And later, the author of "New Old Land" and founder of the modern Zionist Movement, sailed along its shores and envisioned for it a brilliant future.
But it was in 1868, at the time when the whole country lay under the indolent Turkish rule, that the first flush of another dawn broke above these ancient hills of God, and a breeze of a new morning ruffled its sleeping waves.  For when 'Akká was but a grim penal settlement-a home of the owl and the bat-and Haifa, a small obscure town, a Messenger of God was sent here by the Persian and Turkish governments, as a life long prisoner and exile.  And so, here, beneath the shadow of Mt. Carmel, in the land of Jesus Christ and of the Prophets, Bahá'u'lláh lived and suffered, and finally triumphed, delivering to men His message of world unity and peace, and pointing out the spiritual and practical means by which such a consummation might be achieved.
Visiting pilgrims tell us that, from this time onward the whole district began to change; that even the atmosphere seemed charged with a purer and more vibrant quality.  So intimately related are the things of earth and heaven, things temporal and things eternal.
Amid these fateful days of darkness and chaos, we find ourselves turning, with ever increasing longing, towards the heavenly Light that once shone from that lonely fortress, hearing again across the world's troubled waters the reassuring voice of the Counsellor of Nations:  "Be not afraid."-"These fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away and 'the Most Great Peace' shall come!"
Today we are witnessing in the steadily growing importance of Haifa and its magnificent harbour, the materialisation of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's predictions, and the justification of all those who have dared to dream greatly concerning her.  Planted at the feet of green and majestic Carmel she is beginning to blossom like the proverbial rose.
One of the principal causes contributing to this prosperity is, of course, the fact that at Haifa the gigantic pipe-line of some 600 miles, through which will pour the petroleum from the oil fields of Mosul, will find its outlet to the refineries and to the sea.  This vast enterprise and the implications that oil-the igniter of the nations-brings in its wake would alone entitle Haifa to be called the "City of Light and of the Future".
It is also anticipated that for economic, political and strategic reasons, ere long a railway will follow the route of the oil pipes, crossing the wide stretches of desert that lie between Haifa and Baghdád, and tapping the trade of Upper Meso-
Page 306
potamia, the Euphrates valley and Eastern Turkey, and so forming a truly golden link between the Eastern and Western Worlds.
A link that, as some of us realize was forged spiritually long ago, when Bahá'u'lláh journeyed across these same deserts in hardship and suffering in order that a path might be blazoned for the kinship of East and West, and differences of race be annulled.
__________
So comes today the wheel of destiny full circle, and Haifa is again about to fulfil her ancient purpose as a highway for the nations, as well as a great distributing centre for the world's merchandise.  Soon, as a certain writer has predicted, "We shall hear of wool from Mosul, barley and grains from 'Iráq and Palestine, dates from Amara, potash and phosphates from the Dead Sea, rice, skins and hides from Persia, oranges from Jaffa ... precious articles from Central Asia and India, all passing through Haifa to the markets of the West."  In short, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá foretold, it will become one of the first emporiums of the world.
And the story does not end here.  It is, indeed, only the beginning.  Few of us can imagine the high destiny that awaits this "radiant white spot" from which has flashed forth, in this new cycle of human power, the guiding Light of the Spirit.
"The flowers of civilization and culture from all nations will be brought here to blend their fragrances together and blaze the way for the brotherhood of man."1  'Abdu'l-Bahá prophesied in 1914:  "The entire harbour from 'Akká to Haifa will be one path of illumination.  Powerful searchlights will be placed on both sides of Mount Carmel to guide the steamers.  Mount Carmel itself, from top to bottom, will be submerged in a sea of lights.  A person standing on the summit of Mount Carmel, and the passengers of the steamers coming to it, will look upon the most sublime and majestic spectacle of the whole world."2
The searchlight, that shines across the harbour from 'Abdu'l-Bahá's shrine on the mountain side, is itself a witness that the word of God is being accomplished.  As the Psalmist sang:  "Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mt. Zion"-because it has been and is destined increasingly to become-"the City of the great King".


XXIV:10 January 1934
page 307
The Mount Carmel of the future
Various prophecies of 'Abdu'l-Bahá concerning the development of Haifa, Palestine.
"In the future the distance between 'Akká and Haifa will be built up, and the two cities will join and clasp hands, becoming the two terminal section of one mighty metropolis.  As I look now over this scene, I see so clearly that it will become one of the first emporiums of the world.  This great semi-circular bay will be transformed into the finest harbour, wherein the ships of all nations will seek shelter and refuge.  The great vessels of all peoples will come to this port, bringing on their decks thousands and thousands of men and women from every part of the globe.  The mountain and the plain will be dotted with the most modern buildings and palaces.  Industries will be established and various institutions of philanthropic nature will be founded.  The flowers of civilization and culture from all nations will be brought here to blend their fragrances together and blaze the way for the brotherhood of man.  Wonderful gardens, orchards, groves and parks will be laid out on all sides.  At night the great city will be lighted by electricity.  The entire harbour from 'Akká to Haifa will be one path of illumination.  Powerful searchlights will be placed on both sides of Mount Carmel to guide the steamers.  Mount Carmel itself, from top to bottom, will be submerged in a sea of lights.  A person standing on the summit of Mount Carmel, and the passengers of the steamers coming to it, will look upon the most sublime and majestic spectacle of the whole world."1
[Refer to Star of the West, XII:8, page 220, November 1922, for an additional prophecy.]


XXIV:11 February 1934
page 334
'Abdu'l-Bahá visited by great Catholic scholar
Martha L. Root
"Through each and every one of the verses which the Pen of the Most High hath revealed, the doors of love and unity have been unlocked and flung open to the face of men.  We have erewhile declared-and Our Word is the truth-'Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship.'  Whatsoever hath led the children of men to shun one another, and hath caused dissensions and divisions amongst them, hath, through the revelation of these words, been nullified and abolished."2
When this generation is gone, none will be left who can tell the world about meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá, [the] Centre of the Covenant of the Bahá'í Movement, and what He said to them and how His great and gracious presence impressed them.  It was on 31 May 1932, in Lublin, Poland, that I met a distinguished Roman Catholic, Dr Joseph Kruszynski, President of the celebrated Roman Catholic Theological University, Lublin University.  What he told me of his visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 1914, what the latter prophesied for Poland, and the conversation of these two men about the relation of the Bahá'í Movement to Roman Catholicism is thrilling and I relate to you very simply.
I found President Kruszynski a tall, handsome, scholarly, kindly interesting man with eyes full of light.  Any one just to look at him would say:  "He lives the life!"  His whole expression beamed a welcome and hospitality to the writer because he knew that she too, had known 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
"Please tell me all about your meeting [with] 'Abdu'l-Bahá," I said, "and may I ask too, if you are the Roman Catholic priest who visited Him in Palestine in 1914 and was the first, so far as is known, who ever knew and wrote about the Bahá'í Movement in Poland?"  He replied that he was that priest.  This University President said that on his second visit to Haifa, Palestine, in 1914, a Russian Doctor one day mentioned to him about 'Abdu'l-Bahá, such a world renowned spiritual teacher living there.  The Roman Catholic Priest said:  "I shall go to call upon Him;" and the Russian Doctor pleaded:  "O father, if you go, I wish to accompany you!"  Together they went to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's home in Haifa.
"How well I remember that day," said President Kruszynski, "it was 14 July 1914, the fete day of the French Revolution; I went at eleven o'clock in the morning, to visit Him.  My card, I recall, read "Joseph Kruszynski, Roman Catholic priest, Doctor and Professor of Old Testament in Wloclawek Roman Catholic Seminary, Wloclawek, Poland."  He received me so courteously and with such friendliness.  He led me to his drawing room and had me sit at His right, beside Him on the divan.  He expressed how glad He was that I was in His home and we spoke of many matters; our discourse was very interesting!"
Page 335
The President explained to me that with them, that morning, was a secretary who was also an interpreter, but they did not have him interpret as both the Catholic and 'Abdu'l-Bahá knew Arabic.  "And 'Abdu'l-Bahá knew Persian and Arabic extremely well; I was impressed by His command of these languages," said the President, "and He always used the intimate word 'thou' in addressing me, it was very pleasant."
First they spoke of Poland and Polish writers, and the Catholic said He was astonished that this Persian scholar knew so much about the history and sufferings of the Poles and that He had read their literature.  He said that 'Abdu'l-Bahá told Him that Sienkiewicz's works had been translated into Arabic, he had read them and considered Sienkiewicz a great man, but added:  "Tolstoy was a great man too; there was no greater writer in Europe than Tolstoy."
Dr Kruszynski asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá what He thought of conditions in Europe and the latter replied:  "There will be a great war in all Europe and after the war, Poland, thy fatherland shall be free.  I will pray to God that thy fatherland shall be free!"  The President said that this touched him profoundly and he always remembered it.  He related to me how, on the voyage when the Russian ship on which he travelled had left Constantinople, some Russian passengers had loudly proclaimed that there must be war and that Constantinople must belong to Russia; it was necessary for the greatness of the Russian Empire.
__________
These remarks about political, national affairs and about writers only were the introduction to the real topic of the visit which was religion.  "I asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá," said Dr Kruszynski, "what is Bahai-ism?"  And He told me that it is a religion of brotherhood.  He explained to me about a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, a great Bahá'í Temple which is being built near Chicago, and He gave me a picture of it; I have it here.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said that after many years the Bahá'í Faith will be very great, that there will be many believers in this religion; He said it was His hope that all people can be united in these Teachings.  He foretold that many in America, later, will believe.
Page 336
The President told me how 'Abdu'l-Bahá served them Persian tea and then after many farewell greetings, they left.  They visited His beautiful garden, and later they went to 'Akká to see the Prison where Bahá'u'lláh, His Father, had been incarcerated, and they went last to Bahjí, just out from 'Akká to visit the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh.  Dr Kruszynski said that the custom in the Orient is that the first born son bears the name of his father, but 'Abdu'l-Bahá Abbás had taken the name of the Servant of His Father.  "You see," he said, "Bahá was His Father's name and 'Abdu'l means servant; so He was 'Abdu'l-Bahá-the 'Servant of Bahá'.  Abbás His last name means Master.  He was evanescent, selfless, humble; He always spoke of His Father, 'not My Teachings, but those of My Father Bahá'u'lláh'."
__________
Dr Kruszynski said that as soon as he returned to Poland he wrote an article describing his visit to 'Abdu'l-Bahá in Haifa, Palestine; he stated in this article that there would be a great world war in all Europe and at its close, Poland would be free, because 'Abdu'l-Bahá had said so.  He took this article to the editor of a Warsaw paper, but the editor did not wish to print it, he refused it.  "Just one week later the war exploded," said President Kruszynski, "and I kept the article in my library till the end of the war and when Poland attained her independence, I took this same article to a Polish editor and it was published in full in Slowo Kujawskie, in Wloclawek.  I have seven volumes of this newspaper, I shall try to find the article and send it to you."
Certainly it was illumining to hear from one of the great Catholic University Presidents of Central Europe that 'Abdu'l-Bahá had made this prophecy about the independence of Poland and that this Rector of the university had seen it fulfilled before his very eyes.  This New Poland, this nation of 32,000,000 people, statesmen think, is becoming a bulwark of Western civilization and a powerful factor making for the equilibrium of Europe and the peace of the world.
__________
This gracious President showed me his university, introduced me to some of his students and then I dined with him before taking the train back to Warsaw.  He was so hospitable, so thoughtful, it gave me a picture of Polish courtesy at its highest.  During the dinner we spoke of religion, of Roman Catholicism and the Bahá'í Movement.  "What do you, a Roman Catholic scholar, think of the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh?" I asked, and he replied:  "Bahá'u'lláh as a reformer of religion and as a philosopher is very great.  From my viewpoint as a Catholic, I can say that I like this Bahá'í concept of religion because it is a religion of brotherhood, and 'Abdu'l-Bahá wished all men to be united as brothers."
"I asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 'who is Christ?' and He answered that Christ was only one of the great Prophets, World Teachers, that Moses was a great Prophet but that Jesus Christ was greater than Moses and came to make the world better than it was in the time of the Jews.  He said that Muhammad came to make the people better and now in our time all these religions are not sufficient, and Bahá'u'lláh
Page 337
came ('not I, but My Father Bahá'u'lláh came', He said to me) to make better the Muslim religion, the Christian religion, the Jewish religion, all the religions.  'Abdu'l-Bahá also said that Bahá'u'lláh's religion was better for this epoch than Christianity and Islám."
"I told Him," continued Dr Kruszynski, "that the correction of His Father is very great, but only for the Islamic religion, because the Islamic religion is an exclusive one, but His Father has made religion less exclusive and more a religion of brotherhood.  However, in the Christian religion, we believe in a revealed religion; we believe the Bible is a Revelation direct from God and that Jesus Christ is God and man in one, and this cannot be changed.  I know that among the Christian believers are abuses, faults, but the idea of our religion is correct.  And 'Abdu'l-Bahá considered that the religion of His Father, Bahá'u'lláh, is the last and best religion.
"So between our viewpoints," the President concluded, "there was just this difference, that I cannot think that Bahai-ism is the last and best religion.  I honour the religion of Bahá'u'lláh but I cannot believe it is the best and the last.  I believe the Bahá'í religion has many principles for the social life.  I believe the foundation of Bahai-ism is suited to our times; questions of the social life in our age are very great.  The relation of Bahá'u'lláh to Moses and Muhammad I think is correct, but the relation to Christ is not correct.  'Abdu'l-Bahá knew very well about Christianity, I was convinced of this, but the Teachings of Christ are inspired, the Books of the New Testament are inspired and I believe in these Revelations."
Again Dr Kruszynski said:  "I believe the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are the Teachings of a very great philosopher.  I consider that Bahá'u'lláh has been the greatest philosopher in our times.  He has given the world a system uniting religious beliefs with social foundations.  I remember one sentence I said to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, I believe your reformation is very great, very good for Muslims because they are intolerant, very exclusive, they will not participate in or associate with other religionists; Christians are more tolerant.  For example, I believe in my religion, but I myself honour your religion.  A Muslim would be intolerant to all other religions.  You have reformed religion so that your believers will be more friendly, more cordial to the Catholics.  I thank you very much, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, because you are bringing people nearer to the Catholic religion than Muhammad brought them."  And 'Abdu'l-Bahá responded, "Yes, yes, you are right!  Our believers are more cordial to the Catholic faith than Muslims are!''
My conversation with this kind, great Catholic President was so interesting that the hour came all too quickly to leave Lublin, but it was train time.  He had served me so generously with delicious Polish foods, though he himself had eaten only yogurt.  He blessed me, wished me success and put me into his own carriage and his own coachman drove me to the station.  Sitting in the railway carriage returning to Warsaw from this ancient city of Lublin, I pondered in my heart all that he had told me.


XXIV:11 February 1934
page 334
'Abdu'l-Bahá
"A man begins with a little selfish view of Good limited to himself; after a time he learns more wisdom and his view of Good enlarges to his own household.  Then with more wisdom comes the realization that Good must include his family, no matter how large.  Again more wisdom, and his family becomes his village, his village his city, and in turn, his city his country.  But this is not enough; as his wisdom grows, his country becomes his continent, and his continent the world his family has become mankind.  It is the duty of the Press to teach this wisdom to mankind for it is the wisdom of God.  It is the work of a true Press to teach this wisdom of God.''


XXV:1 April 1934
page 8
'Abdu'l-Bahá-the Servant of God
Part I
Z. N. Zayn
The author, a teacher in the American University at Beirut and a graduate of said institution, presents herewith a brief, but intensely interesting picture of the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  What Mr Zayn states about his article gives it great historical value.  "I have made an attempt in this article, very imperfectly perhaps, to record some of the impressions of my childhood days when I had the privilege of meeting almost daily in Haifa.  When once one had met 'Abdu'l-Bahá, whether old or young, one could not forget Him.
"The personality of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the magnetism that permeated Him and radiated from Him, will always remain a mystery.  Even those around Him did not and could not understand Him.  Indeed it will be long before mortal and limited minds can grasp the real entity of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's divine nature."
The second and concluding part of this article will follow in the May number.
Ever since the dawn of history, I whenever there have been famines, plagues, earthquakes and eclipses, whenever a barbarian invasion or a terrible war has devastated a country, whenever terror and distress and misery and corruption have increased in the world, people have believed that "the world was dying, passing away, falling to pieces" and that the millennium, the dawn of a new age was at hand.  Here are a few instances.
In the sixth century AD it is said that Pope Gregory the Great, urged the building of the Church of Apostles at Rome, "although the world was ending".  During the tenth century, the phrase "the end of the world drawing near" was frequently used at the beginning of donations and charters to monasteries.  The opinion of the thirteenth century is voiced by Dante:  "We are already in the final age of the world."  In the latter half of the seventeenth century, Abbot Joachim of Fiore a mystic visionary, believed in religious progress and dreamt of a new age when "the knowledge of God would be universal, because revealed directly in men's heart by the Spirit, without the need of teachers."
Two hundred years later, in the nineteenth century, the age of scientific achievements and mechanization of life, the belief in the millennium becomes even more intense.  William Miller interpreting the "two thousand three hundred days" mentioned in Daniel 8:14, as 2,300 years, calculated that this period would come to a close about 1844, "at which time the world would fold up, the righteous be transported directly into Heaven and the rest of the race destroyed."
By a most remarkable coincidence 'Abdu'l-Bahá Who was destined to become the recipient and the promulgator of a new Spiritual Light, was born on the twenty-third of May 1844.
__________
This article is not intended to be biographical in nature.  But it is almost impossible to write about 'Abdu'l-Bahá without at least referring to the sufferings and privations which He endured for sixty years, from the time He was a child of eight.  If Christ on Calvary once said: "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do", 'Abdu'l-Bahá could have said it almost every day of His life, so great and numerous were the oppressions showered on Him.  At eight years of age, is brought before the dusty
Page 9
and rusty iron bars of an underground cell to see His Father, Bahá'u'lláh, then a prisoner of Násiri'd Dín Sháh in Tihrán, and persecuted for teaching such "seditious" messages as, the following:
"O ye beloved of the Lord!  Commit not that which defileth the limpid stream of love or destroyeth the sweet fragrance of friendship.  By the righteousness of the Lord!  Ye were created to show love one to another and not perversity and rancour.  Take pride not in love for yourselves but in love for your fellow-creatures.  Glory not in love for your country, but in love for all mankind."1
__________
A year later, we find in a caravan accompanying His Father on His journey of exile to Baghdád.  At that tender age, He is already entertaining the princes and the 'Ulamás of Islám who could not resist the temptation of calling on Bahá'u'lláh to listen to His teachings.  When He was nineteen, He is banished again, this time to Constantinople.  Shortly after He is in Adrianople.  At twenty-four He is sent with a guard of soldiers to the fortressed city of 'Akká with Bahá'u'lláh and a small band of followers, children, men and women.  For a time they seemed to be buried alive, for they had no communication whatsoever with the outside world.  "During the intense heat, malaria, typhoid and dysentery attacked the prisoners, so that all, men, women and children, were sick at one time.  There were no doctors, no medicines, no proper food, and no treatment of any kind."2  Only one man remained in good health and that was 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Speaking of those days, 'Abdu'l-Bahá once said laughingly:  "I used to make broth for the people, and as I had much practice, I made good broth."1
For a brief account such as this, we cannot go into details.  'Abdu'l-Bahá spent the flower of His youth in the Prison City of 'Akká.  Twenty-three years passed dwelt-well-nigh a quarter of a century!
__________
On 14 April 1890, the monotony of events in 'Akká was temporarily broken by a non-Bahá'í traveller, an English scholar and professor in Cambridge University,2 who came to visit Bahá'u'lláh for the first time.  His description of 'Abdu'l-Bahá Who was then forty-six, is worth being repeated here:
"A tall strongly-built man holding himself straight as an arrow, with white turban and raiment, long black locks reaching almost to the shoulder, broad powerful forehead indicating a strong intellect combined with an unswerving will, eyes keen as a hawk's, and strongly-marked but pleasing features-such was my first impression of 'Abbás Effendi, 'the master' (Áqá) as he par excellence is called by the Bábís.  Subsequent conversation with him served only to heighten the respect with which his appearance had from the first inspired me.  One more eloquent of speech, more ready of argument, more apt of illustration, more intimately acquainted with the sacred books of the Jews, the Christians, and the Muslims, could, I should think, scarcely be found even amongst the eloquent, ready, and subtle race to which he belongs.  These qualities, combined with a bearing at once majestic and genial, made me cease to wonder at the influence and esteem which he enjoyed even beyond the circle of his father's followers."3
Then came 1892.  Bahá'u'lláh ascended to the Kingdom of Light whence He came.  He left a Will in which He declared 'Abdu'l-Bahá the Centre of the Covenant.  On His shoulders fell the mantle of leadership and the great responsibility of promulgating the Most Great Peace advocated by Bahá'u'lláh, of "hastening thereby advent of the Golden Age" anticipated by Him, and in short of establishing a New World Order "Divine in origin, all-embracing in scope, equitable in principle".
But 'Abdu'l-Bahá was still a prisoner, still surrounded by enemies and spies and ungrateful friends.  Nay, His enemies became now more
Page 10
dangerous, their hatred increased while at the same time the government's restrictions multiplied.
"Sometimes we were better off and sometimes very much worse," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "It depended on the governor, who, if he happened to be a kind and lenient ruler, would grant us permission to leave the fortification, and would allow the believers free access to visit the house [where 'Abdu'l-Bahá and family were permitted to stay]; but when the governor was more rigorous, extra guards were placed around us, and often pilgrims who had come from afar were turned away."4
Sixteen or seventeen more years passed.
Meanwhile 'Abdu'l-Bahá had ordered the erection of a building on Mount Carmel to become the resting place of the sacred remains of the Báb, the Forerunner of the Bahá'í Faith.  But His enemies stirred the government to bring against Him the ridiculous charge of building fortifications on Mount Carmel "armed and garrisoned secretly".  Whereupon the neurotic and suspicious Sultán 'Abdu'l-Hamíd sent successively two commissions from the Sublime Porte.  The second one was "an extremely overbearing, treacherous and insulting Committee of investigation".  It included commanders of varying ranks, one of them a general.
The Committee, helped by 'Abdu'l-Bahá's enemies, drew up a long report full of seditious libels and false accusations against 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He was even threatened that upon the return of the Committee to Constantinople, the Sultán would issue an order to either send 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Fízán1 or to have him "hanged" at the gate of 'Akká.
As the time was drawing nigh for the Sultan's farmán to reach 'Akká and the sorrow and anxiety of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's family and His friends grew more intense, one evening a mysterious person presented himself to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and said that an Italian ship was at 'Abdu'l-Bahá's disposal.  He could leave on it that same evening if He wanted to, and could choose to land at any safe place He desired.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá Whose courage was ever unyielding and Who never ran away from justice or refused to meet His enemies smiled and said:  "The Báb did not run away; Bahá'u'lláh did not run away; I shall not run away".  For three days and three nights the ship tossed up and down on the waves some miles off the coast of 'Akká.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá did not change His mind and the ship sailed away.
However, before the members of the Committee reached Constantinople, revolution had broken out.  The Chairman of the Committee "was shot with three bullets, the general was exiled, the next in rank died and the third ran to Cairo where he sought and received help from the Bahá'ís".  'Abdu'l-Hamíd lost his throne.  Constitutional government was declared in Turkey.  All political prisoners of the Ottoman Empire were set free and amongst them was 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
It was 1908.  'Abdu'l-Bahá's family moved to Haifa, at the foot of Mount Carmel.
Three years later, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, bearing still the indelible marks of fatigue and sorrow on His face,
Page 11
after forty years of imprisonment left the Mediterranean shores for Europe and America.  He was a youth of twenty-four when He entered the Citadel of 'Akká.  He left it with the weight of sixty-four years of age.
'Abdu'l-Bahá toured Europe and America for two years, from 1911 to 1913.  Wherever He went, people of all denominations and social classes gathered around Him to listen to His words.  With His unusually charming diction and most remarkable versatility, He conversed with those who had sought His presence.  One instance picked out of many will convey to the reader some idea of the popularity and the respect that 'Abdu'l-Bahá enjoyed in Europe and America.
"Arriving at Vanners,2 he found a large, strangely mixed crowd, assembled about the gate to welcome him, from the quite poor to the wealthy who had motored over from their country places."3
"All day long people of every condition gathered about the gate for a chance of seeing him, and more than sixty drove or cycled to Vanners to see him, many wishing to question him on some special subject.  Among them were the clergy of several denominations, a head master of a boys' public school, a member of Parliament, a doctor, a famous political writer, the vice-chancellor of a University, several journalists, a well known poet, and a magistrate from London.
"He will long be remembered as he sat in the bow window in the afternoon sunshine, his arm round a very ragged but very happy little boy, who had come to ask 'Abdu'l-Bahá for sixpence for his money box and for his invalid mother, whilst round him in the room were gathered men and women discussing Education, Socialism, the first Reform Bill, and the relation of submarines and wireless telegraphy to the new era on which man is entering."1
In America, 'Abdu'l-Bahá stayed for nine months and visited no less than thirty-two towns and cities spreading day and night the message of love and universal peace.  He addressed people of all denominations and social classes in schools and universities, in clubs and halls, in private homes and grand hotels, in churches and synagogues.
__________
And then came 1914 when the so-called God fearing and God loving nations of the world plunged into the dreadful holocaust of the Great War, when man fought against man with more than beastly and pagan cruelty.  And the tragedy of it all was that every side prayed for divine assistance to win the war!  Indeed it was not prayer but a shameless blasphemy!  And what eloquent expression of our folly and stupidity is found in the following words uttered by a field marshal of the Allies towards the close of the war:
"With our backs to the wall, and believing in the justice of our Cause, each one of us must fight on to the end. ..."
At no time, perhaps not even during His long imprisonment was 'Abdu'l-Bahá's heart so pulsating with grief and sorrow as during the World War when a high percentage of fallacy and irrationality darkened the human mind and when the poison of hate filled the soul of man-man 'whom 'Abdu'l-Bahá believed to be "the highest creature of the phenomenal world, is endowed with continuous bounty bestowed by divine generosity without cessation."2
'Abdu'l-Bahá did not live long after the World War.  "I have done all that could be done," He wrote.  "I have served the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh to the utmost of My ability.  I have laboured night and day, all the years of My life."3  He passed away on the 28 November 1921, in Haifa, Palestine, shortly after mid-night.  "His face was so calm, His expression so serene, they thought Him asleep."4
(To be continued)


XXV:2 May 1934
page 52
'Abdu'l-Bahá-the Servant of God
Part II
Z. N. Zayn
In this second and concluding part of his article, the author, who had the privilege of many intimate contacts with Abdu'l-Bahá, describes His mission and its expression toward humanity as seen at first-hand.
As we study the life of we cannot fail to realize that it was a strange kaleidoscope of events.  The pendulum of His days swung from episode to episode unparalleled and unrivalled in the history of the world.  A prisoner in the citadel of 'Akká, surrounded by spies, enemies and evil wishers, we find Him later a free man in the western hemisphere addressing great and heedful audiences in places of worship and of social service.  In England, at St. John's Church, Westminster the congregation kneels to receive 'Abdu'l-Bahá's blessing!  In 1920, Great Britain confers upon Him the honour of Knight of the British Empire, so profoundly impressed were the government representatives by His noble character and His great work in the interests of peace, conciliation, and the prosperity of the people"!
'Abdu'l-Bahá seemed to have one great task to live for, the task of loving mankind and teaching mankind to love one another.  "The lovers of mankind," He wrote, "these are the superior men, of whatever nation, creed or colour they may be."1  One of the western believers visiting 'Abdu'l-Bahá in 'Akká wrote:
"Five days we remained within those walls, prisoners with Him Who dwells in that 'Great Prison'.  It is a prison of peace, of love and service.  No wish, no desire is there save the good of mankind, the peace of the world, the acknowledgment of the Fatherhood of God and the mutual rights of men as His creatures, His children."2
A native of 'Akká hated for well nigh ten years.  And yet 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed him every kindness and amiability.  At last, one day, the man came into His presence, helpless and bewildered:  "Master," He said, "why is it that you are kind to me when you know that I hate you?"  'Abdu'l-Bahá laughed cheerfully and said:  "My son, it is because I love you.  But you don't understand me."  'Abdu'l-Bahá loved man because He believed that man was created in the image of God.
__________
One of the familiar sights witnessed in Haifa was the Master walking in the streets accompanied by a group of followers and friends.  But what a picturesque and colourful group it was!  Men in red fezzes, in black caps, in felt hats; men in oriental cloaks, in European dress, in Indian attires; brown men, yellow men, black man, fair men!  What a variegated agglomeration of assorted members of the human family accompanied 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  And all of them with folded arms, bowed heads and responsive hearts walked behind Him and listened to Him.  It has been truly written:
"To 'Abdu'l-Bahá, as a teacher and friend, came men and women from every race, religion and nation, to sit at his table like favoured guests, questioning him about the social, spirit-
Page 53
ual or moral programme each had most at heart; and after a stay lasting from a few hours to many months, returning home, inspired, renewed and enlightened.  The world surely never possessed such a guest-house as this."3
At times, early in the morning, at noon or towards sunset, would be seen walking alone with firm steps and in a pensive mood.  Where was He going to?  Where was He coming from?  Perhaps one could read the answer in the eyes of the little children who stopped their play and looked at Him with tender and reverent eyes.  "He is the father of the poor," one would whisper to the other.
Much has been written about 'Abdu'l-Bahá's giving alms to the poor.  Little has been said about the way He did it.  'Abdu'l-Bahá knew the poor, knew them by their name.  And many indeed they were, of all sects and groups, orphans, blind, crippled, sick and suffering, they all came to Him.  Whatever He gave them, food, corn, clothes or money, He gave it to them with a sunny smile and a cheerful word.  His was not a cold, passive, mechanical and impersonal way of helping the needy.  He was never too busy or tired to stop and say a happy word to the miserable pauper who rushed to kiss the hem of His cloak.  How often in rainy, cold and dreary winter days, 'Abdu'l-Bahá would be visiting unexpectedly the dingy shed or dilapidated shelter of some poor and wretched human being!  How truly people could say of Him:  "We love him because he first loved us."1
__________
It is futile to make any attempt to describe the joy, the feeling of exaltation, of wonder and awe, of spiritual tranquillity, of elation that one experienced when in the presence of the Master!  What utter oblivion of self one plunged into when one met 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  And with what inexhaustible energy insisted on meeting, night after night, in His own house, the handful of sorrow stricken believers that stayed around Him, His guests, and His visitors!  He never refused to see anyone, friend or foe, no matter at what season of the year, or at what time of the day one called.
Those meetings were unique and unparalleled in the spiritual history of the world.  The friends would gather in the drawing room of the Master's house, and occupy all the places on the floor and on the chairs, except one sofa, half way up and to the left of the entrance, which was the habitual place where sat.  Eagerly and longingly the eyes would be looking towards the open door and the ears would be strained to be the first to see the Master approaching and to hear the rhythmic sound of His footsteps.  But it was most remarkable that often none of those present could even tell how the Master had come.  For He would appear suddenly as if from nowhere.  And at times, before, one had time to spring to one's feet, 'Abdu'l-Bahá's voice would be ringing in the room:  "Marhabá, Marhabá" (You are welcome, greetings be upon you.)  And then for the rest of the hour, the soul in communion with the Spirit forgot its self, and was utterly unconscious of the material world around it.  'Abdu'l-Bahá often closed His eyes in meditation and remained for a while as if in communion with the
Page 54
Universal Spirit of creation which permeated His own being.  Then after an hour or so, one would be conscious again that there were people in the room, that in fact one's self was in that room, that outside the windows it was black and the wind was blowing-then one realized that the Master had left the room!
About the greatness of this man and His power," wrote Professor Edward G. Browne, "no one who had seen Him could entertain a doubt."
Perhaps it was His remarkable understanding and grasp of human suffering and misery and discord and hatred, His patience, long and enduring, His most lucid and penetrating insight, the depth of His knowledge and wisdom rivalled only by His own spiritual way of life, and His humility so compelling and so mighty-perhaps these were some of the attributes that made of 'Abdu'l-Bahá the perfect Exemplar of the quintessence of creation-Man.
__________
But great and inspiring as 'Abdu'l-Bahá was in the truest sense of the word, He never referred to or admitted His greatness.  Nay, on the contrary, His greatest joy was being called 'Abdu'l-Bahá, i.e. the "Servant of Light".2
"My name is 'Abdu'l-Bahá," He wrote, "my identity is 'Abdu'l-Bahá, my qualification is 'Abdu'l-Bahá, my reality is 'Abdu'l-Bahá, my praise is 'Abdu'l-Bahá ..."3
A believer once asked Him, saying:  "Master, who art thou?  Art thou the Christ?"
"Verily, I say unto thee, that I am indeed an humble, submissive and imploring servant of God; a servant of His Beloved; ... a promoter of the greatest peace among all nations and tribes; ... a herald of the Kingdom of God among the sects of all horizons.  This is my station and condition; ... because my servitude to the Holy Threshold is my brilliant light, my shining star and my drawn sword; and beside this I have no other name."1
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá lived at such a remarkable period in the history of civilization that one cannot help stopping a moment to review very briefly some of the most important incidents of world history between the years 1892 and 1921, when 'Abdu'l-Bahá alone and single-handed faced humanity with His message of peace and love and light.
In 1894, the Sino-Japanese war broke out.  Four years later, Germany, Great Britain and Russia seized Chinese provinces and thus "a flame of hatred for the Europeans swept through China".  With remarkable intelligence and energy, Japan westernized its people in an astonishingly short time, until in 1899, it was "on a level with the most advanced European powers".  In 1905 Russia declared war on Japan.  At this time, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was so disappointed with the Hague Peace Congress that He said later:  "It resembles many drunkards gathered together to protest against the drinking of alcohol.  They say drink is horrible and they straightway go out from the house to drink again."2
Three years later came the fall of Sultán 'Abdu'l-Hamíd, and the establishment of constitutional government in Turkey.  From 1914 to 1918, the world witnessed the spiritual, moral and physical collapse and bankruptcy of the nations.  Two Western monarchs, the Emperor of Germany and the Tsar of Russia, dramatically lost their thrones.  In
Page 55
1919, Russia in particular suffered from disorganization and revolution.  In 1920, one year before the passing away of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the League of Nations met for the first time.
Thus a keen observer cannot fail to notice that 'Abdu'l-Bahá lived at one of the most momentous periods in the history of the world, at a time of narrow and obsolete moral creeds, dead and dying political ideas.  In fact it was a time when people lived on ideals of autocracy, of brute force, of triumphant capitalism, of physical and spiritual slavery.  No wonder then that 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote:
"Today the world of humanity is walking in darkness because it is out of touch with the world of God.  That is why we do not see the signs of God in the hearts of men.  The power of the Holy Spirit has no influence."3
__________
Well nigh thirteen years have passed since 'Abdu'l-Bahá left this travailing world.  Where do we stand now?  To begin with, let us remember these prophetic words written by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in January 1920:
"The ills from which the world now suffers will multiply; the gloom which envelops it will deepen.  The Balkans will remain discontented.  Its restlessness will increase.  The vanquished Powers will continue to agitate.  They will resort to every measure that may rekindle the flame of war.  Movements, newly born and worldwide in their range, will exert their utmost for the advancement of their designs."4
We do not need to stretch our imagination in order to understand the foregoing passage.  Even a casual observation of the events of the last fourteen years reveals to us most glaringly the astounding truth underlying 'Abdu'l-Bahá's pregnant words.
Whether we admit it or not, economically and politically, we still consider the injury of others the measure of our success and welfare.  We still believe in the military catechism which says:  "The way to make war impossible is to make victory certain," in other words that "when each can beat the other, both will be safe".  False and nugatory1 promises that self respecting nations give each other are not things of the past, yet.
We have seen months and years of endless conferences, congresses and conventions to remedy the ills of our social, political and economic conditions, not to mention the "vast mountains of documents, reports, discussions, accusations, counter charges" which are stored in drawers and safes and do not seem to get us anywhere.
There is so much passion in the world, at present; passion of individuals against individuals which makes them hate one another and the organized passions of nations which make them responsible for the wholesale murder of innocent people.  It was this passion which 'Abdu'l-Bahá condemned when He said:
"All the peoples of Europe, notwithstanding their vaunted civilization, sink and drown in this terrifying sea of passion and desire, and this is why all the phenomena of their culture come to nothing."2
__________
To sum up, no words better describe the conditions of the present age than those of Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith when he writes of "... disintegrating institutions, the discredited statesmanship, the exploded theories, the appalling degradation, the follies and furies, the shifts, shams and compromises ..."3
Page 56
We cannot help saying with Sir Norman Angell:
"Are we to continue to struggle, as so many good men struggled in the first dozen centuries of Christendom spilling oceans of blood, wasting mountains of treasure to achieve what is at the bottom a logical absurdity; to accomplish something which, when accomplished, can avail us nothing, and which, if it could avail us anything, would condemn the nations of the world to never-ending bloodshed and the constant defeat of all those aims which men, in their sober hours, know to be alone worthy of sustained endeavour?"4
How long will it take us to learn that "... human happiness," as 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote, "consists only in drawing closer to the Threshold of Almighty God, and in securing the peace and well-being of every individual member, high and low alike, of the human race ..."?5
And again, He said:
"True civilization will unfurl its banner in the midmost heart of the world whenever a certain number of its distinguished and high-minded sovereigns-the shining exemplars of devotion and determination-shall, for the good and happiness of all mankind, arise, with firm resolve and clear vision, to establish the Cause of Universal Peace."6
As this brief and all too inadequate account of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's life draws to an end, we cannot fail to remember His last and stirring words addressed to a group of believers and friends gathered around Him on board the steamship Celtic, the day of His departure from New York on the 5 December 1912.  These words sum up the mission of 'Abdu'l-Bahá on this earth and the principles of love and peace and unity for which He lived and died:
"This is my last meeting with you, for now I am on the ship ready to sail away.  These are my final words of exhortation.  I have repeatedly summoned you to the cause of the unity of the world of humanity, announcing that all mankind are the servants of the same God, that God is the creator of all; He is the Provider and Life-giver; all are equally beloved by Him and are His servants upon whom His mercy and compassion descend.  Therefore, you must manifest the greatest kindness and love toward the nations of the world, setting aside fanaticism, abandoning religious, national and racial prejudice."1
"Until man reaches this high station, the world of humanity shall not find rest, and eternal felicity shall not be attained.  But if man lives up to these divine commandments, this world of earth shall be transformed into the world of heaven, and this material sphere shall be converted into a paradise of glory."2


XXV:6 September 1934
page 166
The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh
Hasan M. Balyuzi
"The creative energies released by the Law of Bahá'u'lláh, permeating and evolving within the mind of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, have, by their very impact and close interaction, given birth to an Instrument which may be viewed as the Charter of the New World Order which is at once the glory and the promise of this most great Dispensation."3
__________
While in London, 'Abdu'l-Bahá was asked by a journalist to relate His experiences of prison life.  He smiled and said:  "There is no prison save the prison of self."4  Perhaps this sentence may give us a clue to the remedy for the world wide ailments of the body politic today.  We need only to glance around us to realize that today individuals live in self, families reside in self, communities dwell in self and nations abide by self.  All are deaf and blind to realities surrounding them.  What can be the first and foremost task of the Bahá'í Cause but to liberate the human race from the bondage of self?
Someone might say that ascetics and hermits have had this same end in view.  In the seclusion of their caves and cells they have struggled to purge themselves of "self".  Their object has been the elimination of the ego but with no thought of their fellow men-a stupendous and impossible task, as impracticable and harmful as undesirable.  The Bahá'í Cause aims at mastering and subduing the ego and employing its huge reservoirs of initiative and energy and its colossal potentialities in the service of humanity.  Fierce competition is a natural corollary of selfishness.  It is the fashion to call it "struggle for existence", and wrap it in the gossamer disguise of biological necessity.  Nothing is more alien to the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh's World Order than unbridled competition.  This must be abandoned and co-operation must take its place.
Some of the basic instructions of Bahá'u'lláh concern work.  Work done in the right spirit is ranked by Him as worship.  "The basest of men," He asserts, "are that yield no fruit on earth.  Such men are verily counted as among the dead, nay better are the dead in the sight of God than those idle and worthless souls."5  "The best of men," again He says, "are they that earn their livelihood by their calling and spend upon themselves and upon their kindred for the love of God, the Lord of all worlds."6  What stronger indictment against social parasites need we have?
__________
This at once brings us to the cardinal question of capital and labour.  Let me dispel all doubts by stating at the outset that the Bahá'í Cause stands on a higher and vastly larger plane than either of our principal schools of economic thought.  Whereas Capitalists are impelled by the interests of the more favoured few, and the Socialists demand the rights of the great mass of workers, the Bahá'ís take a detached view, and consider the two contending factions of capital and labour as inevitable and indispensable organs of the body politic.  It is both disastrous and criminal to suppress one at
Page 167
the expense of the other.  No solution can be obtained, unless both the capitalist and the labourer admit frankly their interdependence, and start afresh on that solid and firm basis.  Bahá'u'lláh's thesis is a wise and just system of taxation and of distribution of public funds, combined with voluntary sharing in industry.  Bahá'u'lláh would dismiss from human minds the very idea of deprivation whenever the social well being of all conflicts with individual comfort and luxury.  The rich should not be stripped of their property and wealth.  The poor man must not be in want of necessities.  Rather the rich should feel in themselves that no ease and peace can be imaginable as long as abject misery is the lot of millions of their fellow men.
But how can this spirit of responsibility of the fortunate for the unfortunate be brought about Human nature, we are told, cannot be changed.  But if mankind is to live on, it must undergo a great unprecedented transformation.  What we term human nature and view often-times with resigned repugnance is only a faint shadow of the ruling traits of jungle life.  However appalling and beastly man was years ago, his predatory and wicked instincts were limited in their application by the lack of efficient method and instrument.  Today we live in a world rampant with dangerous possibilities.  Man has in his possession the most devilish means of destruction.  Thus the very preservation of the human race decrees subordination of this dreaded human nature.
__________
There are people who believe that under harsh discipline and external pressure, man can be reformed.  They assume that force and suppression can induce men to visualize the common weal.  These zealots lose sight of a secret.  We can blow air into a balloon but not indefinitely.  A limit passed, it will burst.  If we wish to proceed with our pleasure, we have first to increase the capacity of our plaything.  And so it is with humanity.
The only way to correct conditions is through just laws; but, in order to have just laws, and also complete obedience to law, man must be changed from within.  This change of human nature makes possible a willing and intelligent obedience.  Without this inner growth some become scheming and resentful.
Both Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá lived long lives of suffering and deprivation in order to show us that the spirit within can conquer so-called human nature and substitute love for hate and justice for greed.
But a desire for justice for all does not mean absolute equality.  This is a chimera that has decoyed men into baseless assumptions and deleterious experiments.  Bahá'u'lláh is emphatic on this point:  we can not have absolute equality.  But the fact that ranks and degrees are inevitable does not entail oppression and irresponsibility.  Bahá'u'lláh declares unequivocally for equality of opportunity and absolute, unconditional equality in the sight of God.  Compulsory universal education affords equal chances to all.
Furthermore, God recognizes no distinction of colour, race, language, nationality religion, wealth and
Page 168
position.  "O children of vainglory!  For a fleeting sovereignty ye have abandoned My imperishable dominion, and have adorned yourselves with the gay livery of the world and made of it your boast.  By My beauty!  All will I gather beneath the one-coloured covering of the dust and efface all these diverse colours save them that choose My own, and that is purging from every colour."1
This oneness of humankind, which in the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, is "the gift of God to this enlightened age",2 constitutes the cornerstone of Bahá'u'lláh's dispensation.  Here a pitfall should be warned against.  Unity and uniformity are two different themes.  Uniformity is deadening.  It paralyzes human faculties, and dries up all fountains of originality and creative thought.  Bahá'u'lláh never supported the idea of uniformity.  By comparing the world and its multi-forms of race, nationality and language, to a garden effulgent with varieties of plant life, 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed the undesirability of reducing all to one type.  One of the glories of Bahá'u'lláh's World Order is the fact that it sanctions "unity in diversity".
The Bahá'í Cause, then, champions universal tolerance and appreciation rather than the enchaining of the human intellect to produce one type.  No violent move, however, against political order and social equilibrium is permitted.  But as long as a movement is peaceful and works through befitting channels, no person or persons should have the right of prevention.  Men are free to express what they think and feel.  But if on a vital point two should disagree and drag others into the vortex of their conflict, both are deemed wrong.  Thus demagogues and charlatans lose their standing.
__________
The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh ordains the establishment of a Supreme Tribunal, a supranational fully-sovereign body exercising control over any and every affair, problem or occasion that affects international relations.  The words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá will best explain the nature of this tribunal:
"... although the League of Nations has been brought into existence, yet it is incapable of establishing Universal Peace.  But the Supreme Tribunal which His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has described will fulfil this sacred task with the utmost might and power.  And His plan is this:  that the national assemblies of each country and nation-that is to say parliaments-should elect two or three persons who are the choicest men of that nation, and are well informed concerning international laws and the relations between governments and aware of the essential needs of the world of humanity of this day.  The number of these representatives should be in proportion to the number of inhabitants of that country.  The election of these souls who are chosen by the national assembly, that is, the parliament, must be confirmed by the upper house, the congress and the cabinet and also by the president or monarch so these persons may be the elected ones of all the nation and the government.  From among these people the members of the Supreme Tribunal will be elected, and all mankind will thus have a share therein, for every one of these delegates is fully representative of his nation.
Page 169
When the Supreme Tribunal gives a ruling on any international question, either unanimously or by majority-rule, there will no longer be any pretext for the plaintiff or ground of objection for the defendant.  In case any of the governments or nations in the execution of the irrefutable decision of the Supreme Tribunal, be negligent or dilatory, the rest of the nations will rise up against it, because all the governments and nations of the world are the supporters of this Supreme Tribunal.  Consider what a firm foundation this is!  But by a limited and restricted League the purpose will not be realized as it ought and should."1
From these words it is evident that Bahá'u'lláh inculcates the notion of collective responsibility, even in world affairs.  More than sixty years ago, He foretold and foresaw the present sad plight of a bewildered humanity.  Now, we are beginning to comprehend that no nation can act as the sole judge of its conduct and behaviour.  Now, the full connotation of Bahá'u'lláh's warnings and exhortations is being revealed to us.  Now, we are forced to admit that unity is the urgent need of the hour.  Today we stand at the cross roads, face to face with a critical and momentous decision.  Which path are we to take, order or anarchy?
__________
Looking in perspective at the projected World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, three salient features command our immediate attention-Justice, Unity and Love.  The followers of Bahá'u'lláh aspire to a new order in which war, discord, jealousy and competition are eliminated, not merely because they are banned and tabooed, but because the human soul will rise to such an elevation of justice and wisdom that greed and carnage will seem childish, brutish and outgrown.  The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh is not a negative system.  It does not simply forbid.  Its richness, potency and animating, revitalizing spiritual power, have not failed those who have enlisted on its side.  A structure founded on justice, unity, love and appreciation will inevitably have peace within its walls.


XXV:8 November 1934
page 236
In the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
(An early pilgrimage)
Rosa V. Winterburn
"Grieve not because of my imprisonment and calamity; for this prison is my beautiful garden, my mansioned paradise and my throne of dominion among mankind.  My calamity in my prison is a crown to me in which I glory among the righteous."2
"You are going to your greatest test," said a friend as we drove to the station to commence the trip to 'Akká, Palestine, the "White City by the Sea".  The words were unintelligible to me then, and it was not until some weeks later that their real meaning became clear.  Scarcely heeding them, in fact, in the happiness of making the start, they were forgotten until their truth came back to me when the visit in 'Akká was moving slowly into the past.
Six days in 'Akká!  Six days in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!  Six days in an atmosphere of the most perfect love and peace that it has ever been mine to know.  Others may have spent six weeks there, six months.  That is nothing, for time is nothing in the presence of the Servant of God.  If a thousand years are but as a day in the sight of the Lord, is it not equally true that a day may be as a thousand years?  We lived a lifetime in those six days.  The outside world disappeared.  The past had never been.  There was no future.  It was as if the moment in that Presence were all of life and that it was eternal.  Peace, happiness, calm joy enveloped us from the moment 'Abdu'l-Bahá took our hands in His in a welcoming grasp until He said "Go back and serve," and we left His Presence, perhaps forever in this world.
__________
Before starting on our journey I had feared being overwhelmed with sadness at the sight of the imprisonment of 'Abdu'l-Bahá; so I had prayed earnestly that I might be enabled to look into His dear face only with smiles.  Once in 'Akká the prayer was as completely forgotten as if it had never been breathed, and I found myself wondering at the readiness with which I smiled into those eyes that always smiled back at me in tender love.  It was not until 'Akká was fading into the distance beyond the blue waters of the Mediterranean, that I remembered my prayer and marvelled at its complete realization.
The entrance into the Presence of the One called by so many "Mas-
Page 237
ter"-came as simply and naturally as into that of some dear friend.  We wondered somewhat, my husband and I, for we had thought it impossible to see Him whom our hearts so reverenced without being overcome with emotion.  Hours passed, we met Him face to face, felt the touch of His hands, basked in the light of His smiles, and still we had not been overcome by any mighty wave of irresistible feeling, and still we wondered.  Days passed, the life in 'Akká had received us, had taken us into its loving arms, and still we were wondering when and how was to come that mighty sweep of power.  It did not come.  The dominance of 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke to us only through His love.  His influence expressed itself to our mortal senses in the peace around us that was always unbroken.  His wisdom was manifest in the grey haired men who bowed before its decisions in unquestioning acceptance.  The efficiency of His teaching was illustrated in the eagerness of those who had been Zoroastrians, Muslims, or Christians to live all together there in perfect peace and unity, under His sheltering care; and in their determination to carry with them to the ends of the world the same peace and harmony that wrapped them in its folds in that dreary, but gorgeous, little prison city of 'Akká.
__________
The day of departure came.  The doors of Abdu'l-Bahá's home closed upon us.  The grim walls and the defiant gates of the crumbling old city of the Crusaders were behind us.  The world and the service upon which we had been sent out were before us.  Slowly driving away, two questions perplexed us:  What was the "greatest test" to which we had been subjected?  We had been unconscious of it.  Why had we not felt some overpowering conviction of the sanctity of that Presence in which we had spent six such bliss filled days?  Then we almost laughed at our simplicity in asking ourselves the latter question.  What experience could we have had more overwhelming in its conviction than the steadily cumulating proof of those six days?  For now we realized, as had been impossible while still in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that every hour, every interview with Him, every observation of the life around us had brought conviction to the reason, to the judgement, to the emotions, to the whole mental, moral, and spiritual nature, that this was indeed the Servant of God for Whom we searched, that this was the Divine Exemplar Who could show the world the way into life eternal.
We realized now that when we first entered His Presence so quietly, it was as if we had been taken up by the first swell of a great tidal wave, raised so tenderly that we had scarcely been conscious of its uplift; we had been carried on and on, higher and higher, until, as the tidal wave may sweep over coast, rocks, and even cities, we had been carried high over all worldly consciousness and it had been as if the world were not.  As this realization came, we prayed that we might never again be upon the spiritual level where we had been standing when that wave lifted us and bore us so high into the realms of absolute, common sense, unquestioning con-
Page 238
nction.  "By their works ye shall know them," and it was through the works of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and of those who served Him that we had attained to the heights of our conviction of the truth of the Bahá'í Teachings.
__________
There still remained the thought, What had been our "greatest test"?  It had sunk into insignificance.  That incorporation of the living Spirit of God in a human body could never be a stumbling block now to our steps.  We had met a man, it is true, a man with all the needs and elements of humanity.  But it had been to realize how perfect an instrument of the Lord the human body may become.  How else could God have spoken to us so forcibly as through those human lips, that let fall Divine Wisdom; as through those human eyes, whose tender glances bore into one's soul a conception of the love and tenderness of God; as by that human tongue that never uttered a harsh or an unkind word; as through that stately form, unbowed by all the grievances of the world or by the sufferings of long years of prison life and deprivation?  Surely, if man is the greatest work of God, man must also be the most perfect Messenger of God to man.
There had been but six days in 'Akká; but the human world was behind us, before us was the world of God.  They had been separated by a faint conception of Eternity, lived in the Presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.


XXV:11 February 1935
page 332
A Bahá'í doctor
Lutfu'lláh S. Hakím
"Souls have appeared in the world who were pure and undefiled, who have directed their attention toward God, seeking the reward of God, attaining nearness to the threshold of God, acceptable in the good pleasure of God.  They have been the lights of guidance and stars of the Supreme Concourse.  Consider these souls, shining like stars in the horizon of sanctity forevermore."1
There has recently passed from this world in Tihrán, Persia, a man whose noble life and ancestral history give us occasion to pause and reflect upon the influence and widespread importance of the Bahá'í Cause in Persia and upon the many ties which bind Persia with America.
Dr Arastú Khán Hakím belonged to the third generation of Bahá'ís.  His grandfather, Hakím Masíh was court doctor to Muhammad Sháh and the first Jewish Bahá'í.  Hakím Masíh's life takes us back to the very early history of the Cause for he had learned something of the new faith when he was in Baghdád through Táhirih2 herself, during the early days of the Báb's manifestation.  From that time on he had searched for the source of her power.  Later in Tihrán, when Muslim doctors refused, he had offered to visit the prison and treat a Bahá'í child.  The father of the child was the famous Ismu'lláhu'l-Asdaq and in the course of these visits Hakím Masíh became a Bahá'í and later achieved much fame in the Cause.
Dr Arastú's father Hakím Sulaymán was likewise a Bahá'í and Dr Arastú himself gradually increased his services in the Cause as he grew to manhood.  Meanwhile he was carrying on the family tradition, as are his sons today, of practicing medicine.  About 1897 he graduated from the American School in Tihrán and was working in the American hospital, where he already showed signs of that healing personality which later made him one of the foremost doctors in the capital.  At this period knowledge of Bahá'u'lláh's Cause often ended in a martyr's death, and so we find him studying the Bahá'í teachings unobtrusively in out of the way houses in the back streets of Tihrán.  Soon he began to teach on his own account.
Dr Arastú's brother, Aflátún, was also an ardent Bahá'í, much loved by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Who wrote him many tablets.  In 1900 Aflátún died and shortly after this Arastú Khán went to 'Akká, where it was his privilege to remain with 'Abdu'l-Bahá for one year.  During the first days of his visit continually addressed him as "Aflátún".  This puzzled him considerably, until one night when he and Dr Yúnis Khán-i-Afrúkhtih were following 'Abdu'l-Bahá through the narrow crooked streets of the prison city, when Abdu'l-Bahá again addressed him as "Aflátún" and said, "Do you know why I call you Aflátún?  It is because I desire his truth and spirituality to reappear in you."
__________
Dr Arastú developed rapidly in 'Akká studying 'Abdu'l-Bahá's way.  He worked with Dr Yúnis Khán translating letters from the American and other Western Bahá'ís.
Page 333
'Abdu'l-Bahá had hoped to send him to America, but family concerns necessitated his return to Persia.  Here he worked devotedly for the Cause, founding a weekly teaching meeting which continued till his death, and which according to his will is to be perpetuated.  He received his medical diploma and became known throughout the capital as a physician most generous to the poor and as one gentle and considerate toward all.
During the very last year of his life his activities were linked with America again through his work of advising and assisting Mrs Keith Ransom-Kehler1 who was at that time labouring devotedly to bring before the Persian government petitions to insure justice in every way to Bahá'ís, especially in the matter of free circulation of Bahá'í literature.  Right here in connection with Mrs Ransom-Kehler's association with Dr Arastú we find a bit of romance mingling itself with the more serious duties of her service, for it was she who arranged for the betrothal of Dr Arastú's son, Dr Qulám Husayn Khán and the sister-in-law of Rahmat 'Alá'í and officiated at the wedding which will long be remembered in Tihrán.
__________
Dr Arastú's death made a deep impression in Tihrán where he was mourned alike by Bahá'ís and non-Bahá'ís.  A long procession of several hundred people followed his coffin up one of the main thoroughfares of the capital mourning their loss and honouring his life of loving service and sacrifice.  Engraved on the stone which marks the resting place of his body are the well chosen words from the Qur'án:  "O well assured spirit, willing and blessed go thou back to thy Lord."
__________
Persia is full of such glorious souls as this man who are professionally and practically successful in their careers yet deeply spiritual and mystical in their complete devotion to the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh, willing to sacrifice everything, not only career, but life itself in order that world brotherhood should be carried forward.  All the rest of the world of Bahá'í brotherhood know that it is due to the faith and self sacrificing devotion of such Persians that the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh grew to the point where it could become a world message and a world movement.


XXV:12 March 1935
page 379
'Abdu'l-Bahá
Music is one of the important arts.  It has a great effect upon the human spirit.  Musical melodies are a certain something which prove to be accidental upon etheric vibrations, for voice is nothing but the expression of vibrations which, reaching the tympanum, affect the nerves of hearing.  Musical melodies are therefore those peculiar effects produced by, or from, vibration.  However, they have the keenest effect upon the spirit.  In sooth, although music is a material affair, yet its tremendous effect is spiritual and its greatest attachment is to the realm of spirit.  Voice is the vibration of air and is like the waves of the sea.  The voice is produced through the instrumentality of the lips with the tongue, etc.  These cause a wave in the air, and this wave reaches the nerve of the ear, which is thereby affected.
[end of Vol. 25 and of the Star of the West]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
2	Refer also to the Star of the West VIII:4, pp. 42-42 and XVI:6, p. 544.-M.W.T.
1	Khedive mean Ruler.
1	Readers may care to know that the day before I left Cairo, speaking with Mr A. Mukhtár, the Secretary to His Royal Highness the Prince, I asked him:  'Mr Mukhtár, please tell me what you, as a true Muslim think about Jesus Christ.'  He replied:  'We Muslims believe that the Christian religion is sent by the Powerful God through His beloved Prophet the Christ.  We have great respect and belief in Jesus Christ.  At the same time we are told in the Qur'án that Christians have exaggerated the belief and respect concerning Christ and taken Him as a God or the Son of the God which we never admitted.  As a result, we believe in the Christian religion and in Christ as a Prophet, but the Christians deny our religion as a religion from God and they deny the Mission of Muhammad as the Prophet sent from God.  They cannot say that we deny the Christ, nor that we do not respect the Teachings of Christ and believe in Him as a sacred Prophet.'
Egypt, the present great stronghold of Islám has more than once given new orientation to religion and world culture.  She stood high in her glory long ago when Europe was entirely unenlightened.  May she go forward now to a new, still higher spiritual civilization and progress in this universal epoch just dawning!  May His Royal Highness Prince Muhammad 'Alí Páshá plant a universal spiritual tree in the Nile garden of Egypt that may be for the Healing of all peoples who visit and revisit this fine land!  He is called to a high station and he was deeply loved by 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
1	From unpublished notes, with permission of Lady Blomfield.
1	From unpublished notes, with permission of Lady Blomfield.
1	Shoghi Effendi:  The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 19.
1	Especially designated teachers.-M.W.T.
1	The Muslim world is divided into two main groups:  the Sunní and the Shí'ihs.  The Sunnís (Turkey, Arabia, part of India) are literal followers of the Word and acknowledge the Caliph as their spiritual head whom they look upon as the spiritual and temporal successor of Muhammad.  The Shí'ihs, on the contrary, do not accept the Caliphate, considering that Omar usurped this rule by his martyrdom of 'Alí and his two sons.  They believe in the hidden spiritual succession of Mihdís, the twelfth Mihdí yet to be revealed would be the return of Muhammad.  They follow interpretation rather than the letter of the Qur'án and in the interpretation depend upon their priests, who thus have great power over them.  They are more excitable than the Sunnís.
2	Refer to Star of the West, XV:6, September 1924, pp. 166ff.-M.W.T.
1	Le Monde social des fourmis
1	The branch of entomology dealing with ants.-M.W.T.
1	The Muslim year, being lunar, is shorter than our solar year, so that the age of one hundred and fourteen in Muslim reckoning would correspond to the age of about one hundred and five years in our reckoning.
2	Throughout the Dutch East Indies it was then the custom for travellers of various foreign races to be segregated, each in its own district, and under the rule of a chief of that race.
1	Previously written as Zia'u'llah.-M.W.T.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 146.  Quote from the Qur'án 28:5.
1	Massachusetts, USA.
2	In October 1931, a total disbursement of $8,640,000.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 218, p. 176.
1	A reward; a recompense.-M.W.T.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 171.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 82, p. 143.
1	Figurative nitric acid.-M.W.T.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 54.
2	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 49.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 57.
2	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 25.
3	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 56.
4	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 53.
5	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 52.
6	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 50.
7	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 80.
8	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 82.
9	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 64.
10	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 75.
11	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 26.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 68.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablet to the Hague, p. 7.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, 140.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, 132.
5	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, III:18, p. 8.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 36.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Some Answered Questions, pp. 79-80.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 171.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 132.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 38.
5	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 38.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 39.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 41.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 41.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 42.
2	George Orr Latimer:  The Light of the World, p. 47.  [Emphasis added.-M.W.T.]
1	George Orr Latimer:  The Light of the World, pp. 47-49.  [Emphasis added.-M.W.T.]
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 151.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 151.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 37.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 667, p. 342.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 668, p. 342.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í Scriptures, No. 572, p. 278.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 455.
5	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 181.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, p. 44.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 151.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, III:2, p. 5. 
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, II:2, p. 6. 
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, III:6, p. 3.  An alternative text is in The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 107.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablet to Guide the Guides.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 34.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Some Answered Questions, p.274.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Some Answered Questions, p. 277.
4	Bahá'u'lláh quoted in Esslemont:  Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, pp. 145-6.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Foundations of World Unity, pp. 43-44.
1	Any name, especially a nick name; loosely an appellation.-M.W.T.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 27.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 27.
2	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 28.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 126.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Arabic No. 13.  [Emphasis added.]
1	'Ayn-'Ayn = 'Abdu'l-Bahá 'Abbás.-M.W.T.
2	In 'Akká.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá.
1	Feuilleton:  a piece printed in, or that part of, a French newspaper that contains serialized fiction, light reviews, etc.-M.W.T.
2	Taken from a pamphlet, the speech delivered by Mr Wesselitzky, President of the Foreign Press Association of London, published in French and English.  London, 1907, at the press of 'Chronide', 29 Besborough Street, London, S.W.
1	Pamphlets in French and English, London, 1907, at the Press of 'Chronide', 29 Besborough Street, London. S.W.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Divine Philosophy, p. 42.
1	The name by which 'Abdu'l-Bahá was known in Palestine.
1	In a footnote Mrs Grinevsky adds that her utmost desire which she had expressed in Ramleh had been that her poems might be translated into European languages.  The poem Bab has been translated into German and French, but the poem Baha'u'llah is still untranslated.
2	The words addressed, in Eucharistic liturgies, by the celebrant to the congregation at the beginning of the Eucharistic Prayer:  "Lift up your hearts".-M.W.T.
1	Now known as the Dunapaleta Hotel.
1	This visit will be described in a subsequent article on 'Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to Budapest.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Divine Philosophy, p. 71.
2	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 136.
3	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 136-7.
1	Known universally by His Spiritual Name, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, which means "The Servant of God".
2	Myron Phelps:  Abbas Effendi, pp. 62-3.
1	See J. E. Esslemont:  Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, for a full account in the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá of this beautiful incident.
2	Spelled also Acca and 'Akká.
3	Isaiah 63:10.
1	Adib Taherzadeh:  The Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, Vol. II, p. 12.
2	Bahá'u'lláh:  quoted in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II (Peace), p. 157.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  quoted in Bahá'í World Faith, p. 179.
1	Later published under the title "The Goal of a New World Order".
1	Shoghi Effendi:  quoted in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II (Peace), p. 177.
2	Shoghi Effendi:  quoted in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II (Peace), p. 179.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 66-7.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  quoted in H. M. Balyuzi, 'Abdu'l-Bahá-The Centre of the Covenant, pp.459-60.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 319.
2	Shoghi Effendi:  The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 42-3.
3	Shoghi Effendi:  The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 46-7.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  quoted in J. E. Esselmont, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, pp. 250-1.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  quoted in J. E. Esselmont, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, p. 251.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  quoted in J. E. Esselmont, Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, pp. 250-1.  Haifa, 14 February, 1914.
2	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 87.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 138.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 116.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 116.
2	Professor Edward G. Browne.
3	Edward Granville Browne:  quoted by H. M. Balyuzi, 'Abdu'l-Bahá-The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 4-5.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 116.
1	A caravan station on the boundary of Tripoli in Fízán, Libya, north Africa.
2	A little farm house on an old royal manor in Byfleet, a village some twenty miles out of London.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 86.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 90.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 89.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 309.
4	H. M. Balyuzi, 'Abdu'l-Bahá-The Centre of the Covenant, p.462.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 148.
2	J. E. Esselmont:  Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, p. 58.
3	Horace Holley quoted in Esselmont:  Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, p. 56.
1	1 John 4:19.
2	Bahá'u'lláh-'Abdu'l-Bahá's Father-literally means the "Light or Splendour of God".
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdu'l-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 430.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdu'l-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 658-9.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 61.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 305.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá quoted by Shoghi Effendi:  The Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 88-9.
1	Nugatory:  trifling or worthless; alternatively, not operative or invalid.-M.W.T.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 60.
3	Shoghi Effendi:  The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 79.
4	Sir Norman Angell:  The Great Illusion, p. 263.
5	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 60.
6	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 64.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 468.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 470.
3	Shoghi Effendi:  The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 144.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Divine Philosophy, p. 22.
5	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 81.
6	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 82.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 74.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  'Abdu'l-Bahá in London, p. 19.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablet to the Hague, p. 10-11.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 258.
1	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 186.
2	Qurratu'l-'Ayn
1	An American Bahá'í who carried the Bahá'í Message throughout the world and laboured extensively in Persia where she sacrificed her life.
