This document is not a comprehensive electronic version of part of the Star of the West-rather it contains a selection of the text covering the Talks and Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that are not readily available elsewhere.  Some pilgrim's notes, historical records and reports relating mainly to 'Abdu'l-Bahá have been included.  Material known to be available as newer translations or published elsewhere in readily available publications, e.g. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, have not been included.
Idiosyncratic spelling or misuses of particular words in the original have been corrected where possible.  Obvious typesetting errors have been corrected, international spelling used, accented letters added where known, and additional Footnotes have been added.
(Most notes in square brackets ([]) were added by M. W. Thomas.  January 2001.)
Material of interest regarding Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá
from the George Ronald Book 8 reprint of
Star of the West1
Volume XIII, Nos 9-12 (December 1922-March 1923)
and
Volume XIV, Nos 1-12 (April 1923-March 1924)


XIII:9, December 1922
page 233
Reminiscences of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
[Original title:  The Ascension of 'Abdu'l-Bahá]
On the twenty-eighth of November, one year ago, 'Abdu'l-Bahá ascended to the City of Light.  The press and magazines all over the world have written of his life and world-wide spiritual influence.  Mr Frederic Dean gives, in The Independent and the Weekly Review, of 24 December 1921, a personal reminiscence of his meeting with 'Abdu'l-Bahá in New York City in 1912:
"'Abdu'l-Bahá, whose death was chronicled in the press the other day, was more than a personality-he was an inspiration; an idealist, whose self-devotion breathed new life into dying creeds.  His gospel appealed with equal force to Christians, Muslims and Jews; to Buddhists and Hindus, Shintoists and Pársís.  His idealism was to many a manifestation of the very source of life, light and love.  He came at a time when the soul's craving for hope and faith was-seemingly-unappeased by any one of the many organized and acknowledged religions.
"I first met the teacher in an uptown church.  I had been sent by my paper to report the sermon.  The speaker's likeness to my own father was so startling that, immediately after the service, I entered the anteroom and told him of the remarkable resemblance.  Very quietly he answered:  'I am your father and you are my son.  Come and dine with me.'  Another engagement prevented, but I asked if I might take breakfast with him the following morning.  'Come,' he said.  I went.  And after that first meeting followed others.  We walked in his garden, and, as we walked, we talked.  I told him of his peculiar attraction to me on account of my own outlook on life; that I was a Buddhist-a Buddhist-Christian.  'So am I,' replied the teacher.  'I am also a Confucian-Christian and a Brahmin-Christian; a Jewish and a Muslim-Christian.  I am a brother to all who love truth-truth in whatsoever garb they choose to clothe it.'"
Major W. Tudor-Pole of London, England, who with General Allenby entered Haifa in August 1918 prepared a beautiful memorandum of the expressions of love and appreciation which government officials and the press gave to 'Abdu'l-Bahá after his ascension.  "As I write," says Major Tudor-Pole, in conclusion, "certain memories come back to me with a strange insistence.
"I remember standing beside the Master in the pulpit of the City Temple, London, watching over five thousand people breathlessly absorbed in listening to 'Abdu'l-Bahá's living spiritual words, and in watching his every smile and movement.
"I remember walking with him through the woods at Clifton, 1911, when he spoke of the coming of a spiritual renaissance within the Christian Churches; or, wandering along the banks of the Seine at sunset, 1913, when the Master spoke of the Great War that was to come, and of the Most Great Peace that would ultimately follow it.
"I have sat beside him at Ramleh, Alexandria, Egypt, beneath the palms, and while he spoke of the essential unity of all mankind.  There were Christians, Jews, Muslims, Pársís, Hindus and Freethinkers sitting around him on
page 234
that occasion, one and all united with the same faith and aspiration.
"I remember walking alone with the Master on Mount Carmel's slopes, sharing his frugal meals in his Haifa house, listening to his melodious chanting within the Garden Tomb, living as one of the family within Bahá'u'lláh's house at 'Akká.
"There is no death.  The Master lives on in our midst, and the great spiritual work of human redemption goes forward unceasingly.
"Despite the apparent world tribulations of the present hour, the dawn of a new Day approaches, and it is the privilege of every man and woman alive today to work serenely and faithfully for the coming of world peace and true human brotherhood."
__________
It is very fitting that in commemoration of the Ascension of 'Abdu'l-Bahá one year ago we quote some of the immortal sentences from the last will and testament of the Master as they were chosen by Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Cause and Lady Bloomfield in their little book, "The Passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá".1  We quote also the connecting sentences from this wonderful booklet and, at the close, extracts from two of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's last Tablets.
[Extracts from 'Abdu'l-Bahá's Will and Testament have been omitted.]
page 236
...
In one of his last Tablets 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote:  "Regard not the person of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, for he will eventually take his leave of you all; nay, fix your gaze upon the Word of God.  Should it rise and be exalted rejoice, be glad and thankful even though 'Abdu'l-Bahá be under a drawn sword, be imprisoned or be cast into bonds:  for that which is of transcendent importance is the Holy Temple of the Cause of God and not the mortal frame of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The loved ones of God must arise with such steadfastness that should hundreds of souls, even as 'Abdu'l-Bahá himself, be made a target for the darts of woe, nothing whatsoever shall affect or lessen their firm resolve, their intention, their ardour, their enkindlement, their service to the Cause of God. ...  This, O ye beloved of the Lord is my counsel and my exhortation unto you.  Well is it with him whom the Lord aideth to do even as bidden in this pure and sanctified Tablet."
His very last Tablet, graciously revealed for his loved ones in Stuttgart, conveys his reflections upon this transient world, and his counsels to his loved ones that dwell therein:
"O ye beloved of the Lord!  In this mortal world, nothing whatsoever endur-
page 237
eth.  The peoples of the earth dwell therein and spend a number of days uselessly, ultimately descending beneath the dust, repairing to the home of eternal silence leaving behind them no achievement, no blessing, no result, no fruit.  All the days of their life are thus brought to naught:  whereas the children of the Kingdom sow seeds in the fertile soil of Truth that will eventually spring up and bring forth many a harvest and shall forever bestow upon mankind its increase and bountiful grace.  They shall obtain eternal life, attain unto the imperishable bounty and shine even as radiant stars in the firmament of the Divine Kingdom.  The Glory of Glories rest upon you."


XIII:9, December 1922
page 242

Two shining lights of Isfahán
The King of the Martyrs and the Beloved of the Martyrs.
Jináb-i-Fádil Mázindarání
These two celebrated martyrs were pure descendants of Muhammad in body and soul.  They were two fragrant roses, of beautiful colour, from his rose garden and were named after his two grandsons, Hasan and Husayn.  Their home was in the city of Isfahán, one of the great cities of Persia.  They were distinguished from all others in excellence, popularity and wealth and were two shining stars in the heaven of the Cause of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh.  During the years 1844 and 1845 when dawned the morning of Reality the horizon of their race was illumined with divine lights and was honoured and favoured with the garment of guidance.
In 1846 His Holiness the Báb, because of the uprising of the learned men, was banished by order of the government from his native town, Shíráz to Isfahán.  Then those who were thirsty for the water of knowledge and were seeking after the truths of religion in that city, Isfahán, attained to their wish through meeting His Holiness the Báb and were satisfied.
One night Mírzá Ibráhím, the noble father of Hasan and Husayn, invited the Báb to his house.  Thus that place became illumined with the light of his presence and on that night showers from the clouds of grace and bounty poured
page 243
down incessantly and the heavenly banquet descended without interruption.  From that time the light of guidance illumined the court of the consciousness of that entire family and they were renowned for their devotion to this Cause and became graceful and fruit-bearing trees in the divine rose garden.
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh was after this banished from Persia by the order of the government.  The blessed party arrived in Baghdád in 1852 and that city was thus for eleven years the dawning point of the light of guidance, the centre of the diffusion of truth and the dwelling place of the followers of pure religion and wisdom.  During this time it was the privilege of these two brothers to travel from Isfahán to Baghdád.  They attained to the meeting and nearness of the Holy Presence (of Bahá'u'lláh) and quaffed for a time from the sweet-flowing, salubrious river of the divine fountain-head.  They became intoxicated with the life-giving wine of the love of God, achieved that which they wished and their utmost hopes were realized.  They implored the source of favour and bounty that they might attain to the heights of glory and wealth, and this prayer was answered.
When they returned to Isfahán they had become like two falcons with powerful wings soaring to the apex of material and spiritual success.  They were as new creations and a wonderful spirit appeared in these holy temples.  The light in their faces announced the glad tidings of the bounties and bestowals of God.  Their hearts reflected the divine light.  Their countenances were radiant and luminous, their characters were like a rose garden, their words gentle and their utterances were full of the precious gems of knowledge and spiritual susceptibilities.  They were rich in the wealth of God and independent of all else save Him.  In addition to this they attracted attention because of their material wealth.  Their resources were plenteous from the business in which they were engaged and great was their reputation.  The range of their business was extensive, they were in continual business relations with other cities and the important affairs of their city were entrusted to them.  They associated with the leaders, the learned, the influential and wealthy merchants, with the high officials and were sought out by the needy and dependent.  They were a refuge to the poor, a shelter for the orphans and widows, a protection for the failing ones, an ample treasury for the needy, a physician's remedy for every sick one and a help to every hungry traveller.  They never refused those who asked of them and were the hope of the hopeless.  The door of their generosity was always open to every one.  For this reason, during the famine of Isfahán these two brothers gave away their wealth and furnished provision for the starving, caring for and saving them from death.
In those days the antagonism of the people to the Bahá'ís was very great.  The scholars of Islám called them infidels and sentenced them to death and the government at that time, willingly or unwillingly executed them.  Every day news reached the ears of the people of the various methods used in confiscating the property of the Bahá'ís and in murdering and imprisoning them.  In this persecution Isfahán led all the cities, a wealthy and powerful Muslim Mullá there through his influence and authority causing the murder of a great number of Bahá'ís.  One by one he attacked these innocent people, with his claws and teeth tearing and biting the harmless sheep and shedding their blood.  For this reason he was named Dhi'b, the Wolf, and his son who succeeded him was called The Son of the Wolf.  Bahá'u'lláh wrote for the awakening and guidance of this person a long and detailed epistle which is now circulated throughout the world.  It is called The Book of the Shaykh and The Epistle of the Son of the Wolf.
The government of Isfahán was at that time in the hands of a cruel and unjust prince who destroyed many lives, confiscated property and seemed to derive special pleasure from the shedding of the blood of the innocent and oppressed.  If the injustice and cruelty of this governor were told the narration thereof would fill a large volume.
page 244
At such a time as this these two brothers, Hasan and Husayn, opened their home to all the Bahá'ís, fully performing their duties, fearing no one, nay, rather, they were the standard bearers of this blessed Cause in that city and the protectors of the oppressed.  Whenever an attack was made by the enemies on any of the innocent they used every possible means to save that one.  Their house was looked upon as the centre for the Bahá'ís who travelled back and forth and for general meetings.  They feared not the hatred of the Mullás nor their public attacks and were so intoxicated with the wine of love and faith that they completely forgot themselves.  They seemed not to live on this earth but to be soaring in another, an infinite realm.
When His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh was in Baghdád, these two brothers, longing for martyrdom, sent a petition to him asking that their blood might be shed for the succour of the tree of the Cause of God and that they might ascend to the Kingdom.  Indeed, in heart and spirit they had already arrived at their goal and had attained to true martyrdom, which is severance from one's own desire and annihilation in the will of God.
Such was the state of affairs until, in 1878, the great tragedy concerning these two brothers, which is here described, took place.
In the city of Isfahán there lived a wealthy Muslim leader.  So numerous were his followers and so great was his influence that even the governor, strong and independent though he was, had to defer to him.  Bahá'u'lláh called this person The Raqshá, that is, snake of beautiful spots with moles full of poison.  Raqshá owed the two brothers more than twenty thousand dollars and his property was in their control.  In this year of 1878 they asked him to settle his account.  And then a satanic scheme occurred to him.  He determined to do away with them by accusing them of being Bahá'ís.  Thus could he escape the paying of his debts and he might, perhaps, even plunder their great possessions.  He disclosed, confidentially, this wicked plan to Shaykh Dhi'b, the Wolf, who responded with the utmost hatred and blood-thirstiness and promised his assistance.  Together they resolved to carry out their terrible plan and accordingly called upon the governor and, complaining, said:
"These brothers, because of their high positions and many virtues, are gradually drawing the people into the cause of Bahá'u'lláh and are destroying the religion of Islám.  Therefore it is your duty to bestir yourself that we may exterminate them."
The prince at first was delighted, but later he asked to be excused, saying "No one has ever seen them commit any unseemly deed, nay, rather they are adorned with qualities and deeds which are pleasing to God and His creatures.  For what crime could they be punished?"
They replied, "There can be no greater crime than to leave the religion of Islám and take shelter under the shadow of a new religion."
The prince then said, "They are of the descendants of Muhammad and we will be responsible to God."
They answered, "We are willing to accept the responsibility as we will be the true murderers."
Then Raqshá, The Snake, he who was so impatient and so anxious to have them killed, placed his hands upon his own neck thus signifying that the responsibility would fall upon him.
The prince said, "These two brothers are actively engaged in business in many cities and it is certain that if such a tragedy were to happen many merchants would suffer loss, their voices would be raised in protest and the Sháh might perhaps start an investigation."
They replied, "We assume entire responsibility and will give you a written statement to the effect that we are prepared to answer any question which may be asked by the Sháh or by the merchants."
They then gave him a statement in their own handwriting and promised him a large portion of the great fortune which they would appropriate.
page 245
The prince at last agreed to their plan and decided to act accordingly.  He advised them, however, to keep the matter secret for the time being, and not to let anyone know about it.
When the Muslim Christmas, the anniversary of the birthday of the prophet Muhammad, came round it was customary for the people to call upon the governor and the scholars.  This year, a large number, of varying rank, including a group of the governor's supporters, gathered at that time at the meeting-place of Raqshá, The Snake.  All their plans were prepared in such fashion that the two brothers upon their arrival would be arrested.
The two younger brothers of the King of the Martyrs went to the meeting.  When they were seated and had commenced drinking their tea Raqshá began to rebuke them severely, saying, "You are Bahá'ís, infidels, unclean and are leading the Muslims astray."  Then he gave orders that the teacups be knocked from their hands and the tea spilled.  At this the butlers dragged the brothers to the prince, heaping upon them meanwhile the greatest humiliations.
Not knowing where the eldest and most eminent brother, the King of the Martyrs, might be, Raqshá started a search for him.  He was at that time at the home of a famous Mullá of the city.  This Mullá had the deepest love for him and held in high respect his ideals, his character and his knowledge.  The King of the Martyrs on his arrival at the Mullá's home said to him:  "Through the intrigues of Raqshá and just because of his desire for my possessions a terrible tragedy will occur today.  He has made full preparations for my martyrdom."
The Mullá was a near relative of the prince and because of this fact was confident that his home could render protection.  Warm-heartedly he said, "I will tell the prince of the intrigues of Raqshá and I will never allow any trouble to occur."
By this time Raqshá had located the King of the Martyrs and his men, noisily seeking him, had arrived at the Mullá's home.  The Mullá instructed his representative to dismiss the men, whereupon they returned to Raqshá and informed him of the situation.  The Mullá's messenger meanwhile acquainted the prince with what had occurred and insisted that he listen to the advice of the Mullá.  Whereupon the prince at once sent his foremost and strongest deputy with more than a hundred heedless ones with strict orders for the arrest of the King of the Martyrs.  The deputy gave the Mullá a letter which warned him against protecting the King of the Martyrs and said that dissension among the influential Mullás would lead to terrible results.
When these violent and cruel officers stormed the house the Mullá at last fully realized the state of affairs.  Compelled to go to the King of the Martyrs, with the utmost anguish and vehemence he explained the situation, whereupon the King of the Martyrs without grief or agitation but, rather, with supreme joy hastened out of his shelter and to the altar of love.  The officers surrounded him as though he were a criminal and dragged him to the governor.  While he was being dragged along in that sad and sorrowful state the crowds filled the streets and with their teeth gripped the finger of astonishment and amazement.  Some of the people were weeping but the King of the Martyrs was as happy and thankful as though he were about to attend a concert or a delightful musical entertainment.
When the city hall was reached he presented the governor's agent with his watch and some of his handsome clothing and, apologizing, said, "I am at present unable to give you more than this."
As he stepped into the presence of the prince he saw his brother.  Suddenly the prince with insolent words commenced to chide and insult him because of his religious belief.  But the King of the Martyrs with supreme courtesy said, "Your Excellency, if you but knew what I know you would never utter with your tongue such unbecoming statements and falsehoods."
page 246
The prince became very angry at this and with a walking-stick he struck the King of the Martyrs, severely wounding him on head, face and body, insisting the while that he deny and curse the Cause.  But the King of the Martyrs held his silence.  The Mullá who loved him so much was present and he perceived that his friend's mouth was very dry.  He ordered water to be brought, and with the utmost courtesy and gentleness the King of the Martyrs wet his lips.  The prince was exceedingly surprised and said to the Mullá, "Strange it is that even under such circumstances as these he shows a refinement and courtesy which are his essential characteristics."
In brief, seeing the strength of the edifice of their faith and the firmness of their stand in their religion the prince in a fury ordered that those two brothers be dragged away by their chains and put in prison and that his plundering servants should strip them of their clothes.
Raqshá on his part sent a company of his men to their home.  They attacked the women and the little children who were there weeping from fear and distress.  They imprisoned them all in one place and for a long time made them to suffer from hunger and thirst.  They plundered and confiscated all the money, jewellery and furniture which were in the house.  In like manner they went to their store and took everything they could find.  The prince also sent a man to the prison to search the pockets of the two brothers and bring him all their checks, notes and receipts.  He took all their investments and everything that was deposited in the banks.  On that same day he also claimed all their servants, who were many in number.
Now while the two brothers were in prison many telegrams were sent by merchants from different cities to the prince informing him that this disturbance was causing great material losses and was a severe blow to business.  The news also came that the Sháh, even, had dispatched a telegram ordering that the brothers be sent to Tihrán.  But greediness for wealth and fear of Shaykh Dhi'b, the Wolf, and Raqshá, The Snake, finally induced him to put the two brothers to death and let the responsibility fall upon The Wolf and The Snake and falsely to declare that the Sháh's telegram was not received until after they had been killed.
The prince all this time persistently urged these two great souls to deny the Cause of God, declaring that to say, even, "We are not Bahá'ís" would be sufficient to save their lives.  But each time those two miracles of steadfastness cried out loudly, "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!" (O Thou Glory of the Most Glorious!)  "Our utmost desire is this, that our lives may be a sacrifice in the path of the love of that Manifestation of Reality and in the spreading of His divine teachings."
At last the prince offered to spare their lives if thirteen thousand dollars were paid to him and he gave permission for the youngest brother, Mírzá Ismá'íl, to go and bring the money.  But the Shaykh, The Wolf, and Raqshá, The Snake, who were anxious to have them killed, on the eighth day of their imprisonment called a meeting and brought together a large number of Mullás and judges.  All demanded and insisted that the prince should pronounce the death sentence and declared that they would assume every responsibility, in this world and in the world to come.  Whereupon the prince said, "Then you are the murderers," and he instructed the executioner to carry out all the wishes of those two oppressors, at which they ordered the executioner to kill the two brothers immediately.
The executioner with drawn sword appeared in the prison at a moment when the King of the Martyrs was talking to and admonishing his younger brother thus:
"O brother, the original intention of these persecutors was to kill me only.  Just say, 'My brother is a Bahá'í, not I.'  Then your life will be spared.  After I am killed take care of the family and bring up the wronged little ones."
The Beloved of the Martyrs replied, "O brother, The Beloved One will give
page 247
the best of protection to those whom we will leave behind and faithfulness requires that you and I be together in all the worlds of God."
The executioner was one of those who for many years had enjoyed the hospitality and generosity of the two brothers.  He begged of them, saying, "Just say a word denying your religion.  Then your lives will be saved and I shall not commit so terrible a crime."
The King of the Martyrs answered, "You are under orders and it is your duty to execute them."
So that blood-thirsty oppressor took them to the field of the martyrdom of hope and tightly bandaged their eyes.  During a period of about an hour each of them hoped that he might be martyred first and might step out of this world before the other.
The Shaykh, The Wolf, and Raqshá, The Snake, meanwhile were strolling upon an elevation, talking to each other exultantly while waiting, watching with cruel hearts that pitiful scene.  They signalled the executioner to finish his work; so, as the two brothers embraced one another, calling on the Greatest Name, "Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!" and offered thanks to God he cut off their heads and stained their blessed bodies with blood and dust.  He then tied their feet with a rope and threw the bodies in a public square that the crowds might see them.  After this the bodies were taken to a hollow piece of ground under a great wall which had been wrecked in order to conceal the bodies and place them beyond reach.
But in the middle of the dark night the youngest brother, Mírzá Ismá'íl, with several of the servants rescued the bodies from under the stones and wreckage and carrying them outside the city washed them at the river's brink, wrapped them in winding sheets and then, summoning grave diggers, and unknown to anyone, asked them to dig two graves in the cemetery.  But the grave diggers were afraid, lest The Wolf and The Snake might hear of it.  So the two bodies were buried there, in that place, and the men returned to their homes in a panic of fear.
Persecutors and disregarders of truth that they were, those people, especially Shaykh Dhi'b, the Wolf, imagined that by the killing of these two great souls the Cause of God would be wiped out and that with the uprooting of these two fruit-bearing trees from the divine rose garden there would remain no trace nor sign of the Eternal Rose Garden.  After this tragedy they ordered detectives to watch for and to kill any Bahá'ís who might come into the city and to inform them if any Bahá'í meetings were held.  They searched, and in vain, to find the graves of the two martyrs in order that they might destroy the bodies.
The patience and fortitude of these great martyrs while enduring calamities and while losing their possessions and their families in the path of His Holiness the Chosen One and their joyful and willing acceptance of ordeals is the greatest proof of the power, influence, greatness and truth of this Cause.  Moreover, the mighty influence of this great Cause upon the spiritual training of mankind became clear and evident manifested as it was in these martyrs through their greatness, their important positions, both material and spiritual, and through their cultivation and their severance.  In like manner the wickedness of the leaders of the people, their tyranny and selfishness became apparent to every one.  Indeed, this great calamity affected not only the Bahá'ís but many of the fanatical people mourned them and paid tribute to them, chanting poems, of which this is one of the verses:  "Heaven, perhaps, had none other arrow than this in its quiver!"
Soon after these happenings relations were broken between Raqshá and the prince.  Raqshá fled, and hid himself.  After a while, on that place on his neck which he had indicated when he stood before the prince and said, "I am willing to have the responsibility of killing the two brothers fall on my neck", there appeared an abscess, which became so infected and unpleasant that his own
page 248
family even avoided him and drove him away from the house to a garden out of the city where finally he died.
Shaykh Dhi'b, the Wolf, and The Son of The Wolf suffered humiliation and degradation and became as fruitless and useless trees.
As to the prince, he was driven away by the Sháh and was hated by him.  He fell into the depths of abasement and finally, expelled by the Persian government, was forced to live an exile from his country.  He returned, once, to Persia, in order to live in his native land according to his own desires on the enormous wealth which he had accumulated.  But the people prevented this by throwing him in prison and punishing him very severely.  In this connection a story may be related:
During the unjust administration of this prince there lived in Isfahán an oppressed Bahá'í.  He was a target for the whip of the Mullás, accused by them of infidelity, and his property was plundered and confiscated.  Fearful for his life he concealed himself in places where he could not be found.  Once he appealed to the prince, reminding him of the sighs and cries of the oppressed, the broken-hearted and the helpless.  He also tried to remind him of his responsibility to God.  The prince replied with the greatest arrogance and contempt, saying, "Go to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and accuse me and let him do with me whatever he can."  An insult such as this hurt this broken-hearted Bahá'í more than anything else.  Later on, when the prince was indicted, despised, imprisoned and expelled and was in utter humiliation that Bahá'í travelled from his distant native town to the prison, met the prince, made himself known to him and reminded him, saying, "Some years ago I spoke to you of my sufferings due to cruelty and oppression and of how all my possessions had been confiscated and I had no place of safety and rest and how I must needs, through fear of my enemies conceal myself every moment.  You said to me, 'Go to 'Abdu'l-Bahá and accuse me.'  Though orally I did not accuse you in his presence yet the justice of God requires punishment and reward.  For this reason His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh said, 'The tent of the order of the world is supported and upheld by two pillars, punishment and reward.'  Therefore, whatever has happened is inevitable and ordained."
In a word, those powerful enemies under such conditions passed away from this world and their light became extinguished.  But their honours, The King of the Martyrs and The Beloved of the Martyrs, have ignited a light which will shine forever.  All the days of their life unto the day of martyrdom the nostrils of the spiritual ones were ever perfumed by their fragrance.  During their lifetime they were very prominent, just and happy and were loved by all.  Because they held their souls in their hands, sacrificed them in the path of the True Friend and took their stand near to the great mercy in the Abhá, Most Glorious Kingdom numerous tablets were revealed from the pen of Bahá'u'lláh concerning their exalted station and the grief of the Supreme Concourse for their ordeals.  Such jewels of divine subtleties and infinite favours were revealed that they will remain throughout the everlastingness of the world and the Kingdom.  The spiritual titles, The King of the Martyrs and The Beloved of the Martyrs, were granted them, and now, by these merciful names they are well known in the East and the West.
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí and Emily Vail.
Note:  An evidence of the great love of His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá for these holy martyrs is the fact that he was the essence of kindness to the bereaved families and cared for the son of the King of the Martyrs, Mírzá Jalál, in his own home.  Later he gave Mírzá Jalál his daughter, Rúhá Khánum, in marriage.


XIII:10, January 1923
page 265
The victory of faith
Horace Holley
Those who live in the depths of a small, narrow valley, and make no effort to climb the lofty mountains by which they are beset-such people never behold the landscape stretching beyond the hills; they know not what the mountains may conceal.
But he who makes the mighty effort, leaving behind him the narrow valley of human selfishness and ease; he who has the supreme courage and strength to gain the summit, for him the invisible becomes visible; for him the infinite divine horizons are unfolded, and that which was hidden behind the mountains is revealed.
One of those recurrent visions that come again and again, whenever selfishness and greed and fear are truly overcome-that landscape which ever greets with its beauty the soul who reaches the highest hill-is the vision of a united humanity, a single faith, one worship, one law, one God.  To this every traveller in the world of spirit has testified, and their testimony ever agrees.  We find this vision singing in the words of Isaiah; Augustine, in his great work "The City of God" rediscovered it; its perception haunted the great souls in the Middle Ages; today once more the people of magnanimity like Emerson have testified eloquently that the same spiritual landscape still exists.  You may search the records of the vision of every people, East and West, North and South-wherever the soul becomes articulate, its speech is the praise of that which it beholds before it, beyond the hills.
page 266
To these witnesses, that vision is reality, and the world's division, suffering and pain is an unreality they have forever left behind.  By and for and in that reality they have lived and died.
But their witness is incredible to the people in the darkness of the valley.  In the valley, the description of the landscape beyond the hills seems no more than an empty dream, a denial of the plainest facts confronting one on every hand.  Here, reality is the struggle for existence, the survival of those who are "fit", a constant and painful effort to gather fruit from trees on which the sun too seldom shines.  That such a fruitful landscape lies on the other side of death, many in the valley will agree; but that it lies on the other side of sacrifice here and now, this they repudiate, this they vehemently deny.  And their repudiation and their denial are sanctified by those to whom they are accustomed to turn for authority in matters that pertain to the life of the soul.
That faith has had no visible victory in any era of recorded time, is all too evident; that the vision of human brotherhood never seemed so dim, so unreal, so legendary as in this troubled age, is no less apparent.
Nevertheless, it is well to recall that some hundreds of years ago Leonardo da Vinci drew plans for the construction of a machine that would fly.  In his day, even the thought of aviation was inconceivable.  The failure of his efforts appeared to his neighbours like the judgement of an offended Providence against one who had attempted to contravene the divine law.
But now that aviation has become a commonplace occurrence in this age of scientific progress, what are we to say of da Vinci?
In the world of thought, da Vinci achieved aviation-in the world of thought he stood abreast of the people of today.  It was in the world of material fact, and in this world only, that da Vinci failed.  He failed only because certain material conditions had not yet been fulfilled.  He had no suitable motive power, no suitable structural elements such as we now have.  But the principle of flight was certainly his-and time itself has worked to vindicate his aspiration.
Therefore we see that there, are two worlds-the world of vision and the world of outward fact.  Vision ever precedes fact-vision creates fact.  For the world of vision is the world of causes; the world of outward fact is the world of effects.  That which exists in the world of vision must eventually come to existence also in the world of fact.  The world of fact cannot resist the world of vision, any more than the earth can resist the growth of the seed that are sown.  For the earth is composed of the very substance of vegetation-and in like manner, the world of effects is composed of the substance of vision.  Where the earth is too scanty for vegetation-where the earth resists the growth of the seed, there the stunted vegetation rots and goes back to the earth; and when this has happened season after season, the earth is fertilized by the very vegetation it seemed to resist.  So humanity, denying the spiritual world, resisting the growth and development of the life of spirit, is gradually spiritualized by the influences it destroys, or rather seems to destroy.
Thus if we consider once more the recurrent vision of human brotherhood, righteousness and unified faith:  since this reality has ever existed in the world of perception, the world of causes, it must also come to existence in the world of outer fact.  For the separation of these two worlds is not the eternal separation of life and death, or good and evil, or light and darkness; rather their separation is that of cause and effect.  It is a separation which lies in time, and lying in time, is also joined by time.  As the tree is the effect of the seed, but the tree and the seed are separated by time, yet connected in time; so also human brotherhood is the effect of the soul, the fruit of the soul, and the long agony of the soul's sacrifice is not only the measure of the duration of time but also the measure of time's meaning.
For there must needs be concurrent conditions for the realization of brotherhood, just as there had to be concurrent conditions for the realization of mechanical flight.  Just as the thought of flight remained perfect, unchanging in the world of causes until certain conditions had been established in the material
page 267
world, so the vision of peace on earth has existed perfect and unchanging, a landscape beyond the hills of sacrifice and endeavour, until little by little those outer conditions might be established of which peace and righteousness are the consummation, the purpose, the motive, the fruit.  Never has the man of faith denied the reality of human brotherhood, but in all ages his concern has been to further the inner and outer preparations for its eventual victory.
Let us not be deceived by the apparent predominance of hatred, suspicion and the desire for material conquest in this age.
Nine years ago a child might have travelled from Berlin to Paris in a few hours, without danger, without annoyance.  A year later, in 1914, more than a million men attempted to make that journey, and not one man arrived.  Why was this?  Not one man arrived because they came on conquest, and coming on conquest they raised up forces of opposition that proved mightier than they.
This is a new condition in the world of humanity.  Hitherto, no power has existed strong enough to resist empire except the mysterious power of time.  Rome was overthrown, overthrown at last, but Rome was overthrown so slowly that people did not perceive the seeds of Rome's downfall were sown by the first legions Rome sent forth to conquer the world.  Hence arose, in all past ages, the apparent justification of conquest and the apparent unreality of love:  that the effects of ambition and greed were so separated from their causes that the people could not realize that cause and effect are actually one.
But today, cause and effect are no longer mysteriously separated by time, or place, or personality.  The material unity of all races and all countries, and their complete interdependence upon one and the same economic organization, has created a condition wherein spiritual motive and material consequence are as inseparable as the heart and the mind of the same man.
There is an old saying about "those who fish in troubled waters" which we can complete by adding the words "must stand on dry land".  That is, to profit by others' domination one must stand beyond the consequences of their domination.  Today no immunity exists or is possible for any individual or group.  For men are no longer associated together as self-sustaining groups, but each community has become an essential wheel or lever in the one world machine-an essential organ or limb in the one body of humanity.
In the light of this new condition let us perceive the sequences in which vision, as cause, becomes reality, as effect.
The origin of love, in evolving humanity, is sympathy, and sympathy is the sharing of the same danger, or suffering, or pain.  So long as humanity stood divided from itself, in separate races and religions, so long was sympathy confined in its action to the separate community, and the result of sympathy, love, expressed itself as loyalty to the one nation and the one creed.  Therefore love ever resisted and overthrew its own desire, since loyalty to the one nation and the one creed involved opposition to other nations and other creeds.  Today, just as injury to one part of a body is injury to all parts, so injury to any portion of humanity has its effects upon all other portions.  The very universality of suffering in this age has overthrown the foundations of limited loyalty, and the mutual danger we face through warfare or economic disaster is the pledge of a common sympathy as inevitable as the rising of tomorrow's sun.
If we seek for confirmation of this in one another's spiritual limitations, however, we may seek in vain.  For just as an imperfect mirror exaggerates every image, so in our imperfection of thought and love do we tend to confirm each other in our selfishness rather than in our aspiration for the common good.  Without some source wherein each may find his own perfection steadfastly set forth, we shall continue as it were in the narrow and endless valley of self, increasing the crisis of modern existence until another and greater war engulf us all.
'Abdu'l-Bahá's spiritual influence alone can overcome the bitterness of suspicion and the habit of hate.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has brought back in its fullness the ancient, the timeless vision of
page 268
brotherhood, righteousness, peace and love.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has given this vision an expression in word and deed which transcends every limitation of race, of class, of nation and of creed.  No community can claim 'Abdu'l-Bahá for their own spiritual leader, and make his inspiration the justification of separateness, as men have done with every spiritual leader of the past.  In the divisions of humanity he has arisen as the true centre and point of unity, a mirror reflecting the light of one love and one teaching to every horizon.  As each community, seeking relief from its own restrictions and its sufferings, turns to 'Abdu'l-Bahá for guidance, it finds all other communities illumined in the same compassionate love.
When a reporter of the New York Globe visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá at Haifa a few years ago in the course of an investigation of the Zionist movement in Palestine, 'Abdu'l-Bahá gave her this message:  "Tell my followers that they have no enemies to fear, no foes to hate.  Man's only enemy is himself".
It means nothing how many or how few 'Abdu'l-Bahá's followers may be at this moment here or in other parts of the world.  That message was the expression of the reality emerging from the present era of confusion, of trouble, of unrest, of universal change.  To receive that message from the lips of 'Abdu'l-Bahá at the time it was uttered is to be forewarned and forearmed; but the message is inescapable, sooner or later, by reason of the actual conditions of the world.  'Abdu'l-Bahá recorded the spiritual evolution that went on behind and within the material evolution of this age.  He witnessed for us the victory of faith.
As one considers the strife that is taking place everywhere today, one recalls the ancient story of Atman the king.
One day Atman summoned his four sons to his presence and said:
"My sons, because you expect to share this mighty kingdom after my departure, you are making no effort to develop in yourselves any capacity or any worthiness.  As you are my sons I love you, but I also have a duty to my people.  Therefore go forth, each of you, into the world, and to him who best proves his worthiness I shall leave the kingdom."
So the four sons went forth, one to the East, one to the West, one to the South, one to the North.  And as each had inherited of the father's capacity, so each made a mighty effort to develop worthiness, and each rose to leadership in the country where he lived.
Then having become a leader in his country, each of the four sons remembered his father's promise, and set forth to return to Atman's capital and claim the right of inheritance.  So each set forth on the way, bringing with him a mighty following of soldiers and servants that Atman his father might realize how worthy he had become.
Now arriving on the great plain before the gates of the city, each brother beheld the army of the other also arriving, the army of the East with the banner of the dragon, the army of the West with the banner of the eagle, the army of the North with the banner of the bear, and the army of the South with the banner of the palm.  But seeing these other banners, each brother thought that hostile armies had gathered to destroy the kingdom of his father Atman, and to defend his father each brother led his army against the other armies on the plain.
By reason of their courage, the four brothers fought at the head of their armies, where the banner was upheld, and in the course of a few hours all the banners were thrown down and the four leaders wounded.
Then the armies, the banners thrown down and the ranks hopelessly intermingled, ceased to fight, and around the four brothers as they lay wounded a circle of mourning soldiers stood in silence.
Then the oldest brother, feeling his heart's blood ebb away, raised his voice in a mighty cry of grief and lamentation:
"O Atman, my father!  O my father, Atman the king!  Bitter enemies surround thy city, and they shall lay it waste and slay thee in the midst.  Gladly have I given life for thee, O my father-alas, that the enemies were too strong and I have died in vain."
So lamented the eldest brother.  And when the other brothers heard him lamenting their father Atman, the king,
page 269
then they lamented also, and more bitterly even than he, for now they knew that it was no enemy they had fought, but their own brothers they had so blindly attacked and so unwittingly harmed.
Even so the strife in which we are all engaged, even now-strife political, strife economic, strife social, strife religious.  This is not an ordinary strife; like the battle of the four brothers, it is the universal combat which precedes mutual recognition and prepares for the Most Great Peace in the hearts of men.  For there is no recognition possible between the strangeness of our customs and the intensity of our desires, but recognition is in and through the common fatherhood of God, reconciliation is in and through obedience to the one universal Will.
Let us not be dismayed by this frantic confusion of strife.  It is the final and complete expression of divine love, compelling humanity to destroy the foundations of its own injustice and greed.  Were there to be no such universally disastrous consequences of age-long injustice, the divine compassion would be entirely absent from the arena of human affairs.  This period of universally disastrous consequences is that which they have ever warned humanity, the witnesses of God from age to age.  All the spiritual witnesses return in this age of fulfilment.  They speak in the voice of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.


XIII:10, January 1923
page 269
From the Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb
Written in Palestine during the Great War
In the evening, when the believers were sitting in his benign presence, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "All the people are sacrificing their lives for the sake of the worthless (valueless) earth.  They are not adorers of God, but worshippers of the ground.  Were they giving up their lives in the path of God the results would be everlasting.  But now what benefits do they receive?  If one soul is martyred for the sake of Truth eternally will he shine from the horizon of glory.  Yet, during the last six months probably more than one million living, breathing youths have been left on the battlefields, dead, and soon their names will be forgotten!  In a few years who will care to know about them as individuals?  The historians of each country will no doubt compile the history of the salient events of this tremendous struggle, for the benefit of the reading public, but the public as a mass is indifferent, heedless and forgetful.  Only the noble minds of a few will grasp the general meaning of these world-shaking events.
"Our hope is that the differences will be settled soon and friendly relations based upon sound and permanent foundations will be established."
__________
An old man passed by.  The Master called him and asked after his health.  Then he put into the palm of his hand an English pound, and prayed for him thus:  "May thy body be at peace, thy mind be at peace, thy thoughts be at peace, thy soul be at peace and thy spirit be at peace."
When he left, the Master said:  "The name of this old man is Rustam Effendi.  He has served me in many ways.  He has now become very poor.  I was looking for an opportunity to help him and this was the proper time."
While he was talking a carriage stopped in the middle of the street and the stout occupant jumped down and came toward us.  He greeted the Master; then, after a few words, he returned to his carriage.
page 270
The Master said:  "This man is As'ad Bey.  When we were in 'Akká years ago he came to me one day and said, 'Master, I am the most miserable man!  I am seeking good fortune but it eludes me at every turn.  I long to be prosperous, but ill luck pursues me.  If I touch gold it turns into copper.  If I hold a green leaf in my hand it becomes sear and yellow.  I have lost all my possessions and with them all my faith.  Please pray for me that God may help me.'  I gave him some money and, that night, I supplicated at the Holy Threshold of the Blessed Perfection that he might receive assistance.  The next day he was offered a government position with a good salary.  Then negligence overtook him, and he became so proud that he would not even speak to me.  When, later, a Kurdish Mutasarrif came to 'Akká he intrigued against us, carried false reports and was even so arrogant as to wish me to offer him a bribe as the price of silence!  I did not say anything to him.  Later he repented his deeds."
__________
When we entered the hotel and while we were drinking our coffee the Master spoke about severance from and attachment to the things of this world.
"The realization of these two opposite attitudes in a single individual is very rare.  In the Bahá'í Cause it is taught that we must devote the utmost attention to the pursuit of our worldly affairs but at the same time be severed from all else save God.  How can the mind and heart be entirely free, and detached from every pursuit, yet occupied with the solution of material problems?  This is a most subtle, psychological question.  To be in the water and not to get wet; to go through the fire and not to be burned-these are opposite, irreconcilable conditions.  Still, in the spiritual world these two antipodes must meet and the two qualities of severance and attachment must be harmoniously combined."
On our return home there was quite a large meeting of the believers and 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "I went out to return the morning call of the German officer.  While I was there the Gaemmagam entered the room.  According to what they said hundreds of thousands of people have been killed during the past few months.  What cruel minds there are!  What demoniacal hearts are found!  What diabolical thoughts are portrayed!  What devilish engines are at work!  What black souls are discovered!  What satanic schemes are unearthed!  What dark imaginations are brooding over infernal plans!  All their demoniacal policies work for the destruction of the conqueror and the conquered.  The countries of both sides are laid waste.  The people of the opposing nations are butchered.  The homes of the governments are ruined and civilization on both sides is annihilated."
__________
It was still raining when we rode away and picked up Mírzá Muhsin at the other end of the town.  There was a heavy sea rolling and the clean sandy beach was constantly being washed by the huge waves.  The sight was sublime.  Many Arabs, both men and women were walking along, bare-foot, and carrying on their backs heavy loads.  There was one especially interesting, an Amazonian-looking woman who carried a bed on her head, a large mat rolled up and tied to her shoulders and a child in her arms.  The Master was amused to see this because the woman was entirely unmindful of her load and trudged along perfectly happy and unconcerned.
The Master said:  "There are certain forms of work which are beyond human endurance and others which are within it; and these differ greatly according to the early environment and training of each individual.  For example, Mírzá Muhsin here, could not walk bare-footed, as these Arabs do, on such a rainy day as this.  He would catch cold and be in bed for a month.  But the Arabs go through it day after day and grow healthier and stronger.  The struggling, winning, successful man is he who accustoms himself to the accomplishment of those things which are considered to be beyond human endurance.  Only a soul thus great can stand the tests of life and come out of the crucible pure and unspotted.  (But) if one cannot rise to this height he can
page 271
at least school himself to perform the tasks which are within the range of his endurance.  If a man cannot qualify in one of these two classes he becomes a social burden."
__________
This morning the Master sat for some hours in the delightful warm sunshine.  Many stopped and talked with him.  He inspired everyone to be firm and calm in these trying days.  His cheerful voice went straight to the hearts and caused sad faces to smile and laugh-even while the warship was slowly passing before us.  At noon Shaykh Sálih took dinner with us.  He says he will not leave 'Akká until he can take the Master with him to Abú-Sinán.
In the afternoon we were all summoned into the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police was ushered into the room also.  In the course of the conversation 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "The citizens of a country are like the various members and organs of the body.  So long as the brain and the nervous system are co-ordinate in their functions there will be no jar in the constitution.  But when they fall out of harmony great disturbances become manifest.  In like manner, when the government represents ideals of progress and justice the people will advance and progress in their activities.  Ideal co-operation will bind together the hearts and strike at the root of poverty for preventable poverty is a source of all misery and evil.  The rulers must be filled with mercy and solicitude for the condition of the unfortunates."
__________
Because this is Christmas eve I cannot entertain you better than to relate to you some of the charming stories which fell from the lips of the Master this evening:
"When I was in Mázindarán I was a wee bit of a child and enjoyed all the fun and play belonging to that age.  In our town we had a man by the name of Áqá Rahím who was the overseer of our shepherds.  One day he came to our house and asked my mother to let him take me to a country barbecue to be given by the shepherds.  After some urging on his part permission was granted, and I was glad of the chance to take part in an outdoor entertainment.
"Áqá Rahím took me with him and soon we were out in the country.  He led me through green valleys and beautiful pastures till we reached the foot of a lofty mountain.  Here we had to walk through a narrow defile and then by a zig-zag road and with much difficulty slowly to ascend to the summit.  When we arrived at the top I was surprised to find myself on a vast, verdant, tableland which was no other than the pastureland of our cattle.  I still feel the exhilarating breeze which greeted my cheeks on that clear day!
"Exclusive of horses and cows there were about four thousand head of sheep and goats belonging to us, while a few thousand more were the property of other owners.  But all were grazing peacefully on this broad plateau.  It was a most charming, ideal, pastoral scene and, from afar, I could see many shepherds and shepherdesses.  We rode on a few minutes longer and then, under a spacious bower I was welcomed by some eighty or more shepherds who were clamouring to salute me.  They were all dressed in their best clothes for this was a gala day.  To me it was a noble and attractive sight.
"On that morning about fifteen sheep had been killed and prepared in the cool-flowing spring near by; then the shepherds had stuck them on long iron rods to be roasted.  Huge, spectacular campfires were burning and while the sheep were roasting the shepherds sang folk songs and danced their charming peasant dances.  When noon came they all sat on the green grass and feasted, with extraordinary appetites, upon the well-seasoned, toothsome meat. ...
"When evening drew nigh and the hour of our leave-taking approached all the shepherds gathered around us and in their farewell speeches hinted that they expected me to give them some gifts as is customary with the landlords in these parts.  I asked Áqá Rahím what it was all about and told him that as I was such a little child they should not expect me to make gifts and, moreover, I had brought nothing with me.  Áqá Rahím replied:  'This will not do.  You are the
page 272
master of all these shepherds and I do not like to think what they will say if you leave this place without giving them something.'
"I was indeed in a dilemma but after thinking a moment the idea came to me to give each shepherd a few sheep from our own flocks.  I communicated the idea to the overseer who was rather pleased with it; and it was announced in a solemn tone, and immediately acted upon.  When at last we reached home, and my act of generosity was related to the Blessed Perfection, he laughed very much over it and said:  'We must appoint a guardian to protect Áqá-master-from his own liberality; else, some day, he may give himself away'."


XIII:10, January 1923
page 276
Spiritual meetings
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Regarding arrangements for the Bahá'í Sunday meeting for the purpose of worship, this is very suitable that first, prayer should be chanted and supplication made until all gather; then communion should be made.  After praying, sacred readings with melodious voices should be read by all together.
__________
Thou hast written concerning the spiritual meeting.  The spiritual meeting must be in the utmost state of ecstasy and tumult.  The supplications must be perused, the Tablets and Verses be read, eloquent speeches be delivered, divine proofs be explained, the audience be encouraged to enter into the Kingdom of God, news received from different parts be read and in the end they may read all together, a supplication.
__________
The founding of these spiritual meetings is purely for the purpose of teaching; but, as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is not yet founded, therefore in the spiritual meetings verses are chanted, supplications and communes offered and discourses delivered.  However, when the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is organized the spiritual meetings will be devoted especially to teaching, and the place of worship will become focalized in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár.
__________
This Cause is proclaimed through eloquent, sincere addresses.  We must unloose the tongue, spread the fragrances of God, diffuse the words of God.  We must present to the public the proofs and evidences of this Cause with a tongue of fire so that souls may be exhilarated, minds become full of tumult and acclamation.  With words of love and illumination we must set hearts aglow with the fire of the love of God, enkindle minds with the power of the Kingdom.  We must explain the teachings orally so that hearts may become like pure fountains, the invisible inspirations may descend, the bounties of the Holy Spirit may be revealed, the rays of the Sun of Reality may shine; the breezes of the Paradise of Abhá may waft and the glad tidings of the Kingdom of Abhá may be announced.


XIII:10, January 1923
page 277
Exiled from Baghdád
A story from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
When the Blessed Perfection (Bahá'u'lláh) was exiled from Baghdád the large number of believers who went with him divided the work of the party among them.  For example, Darvísh Sidq-'Alí and Hájí Ibráhím acted as equerries, Ustád Muhammad 'Alí looked after the baggage, Mírzá Muhammad Qulí supervised the pitching of the tents and I was, if we may here use a military term, a commissary officer and had to supply the party, including horses, etc., with food and the daily necessities.  Often, by day or by night we covered a distance of from twenty-five to thirty miles.  No sooner would we reach a caravanserai than from sheer fatigue everyone would lie down and go to sleep:  utter exhaustion having overtaken everybody they would be unable even to move.
But Mírzá Mahmúd and Áqá Ridá rested not for a moment.  After our arrival they would immediately become engaged in cooking for this party of nearly seventy-two people-and this after their arduous work of guiding all day or all night the horses which carried the palanquin of the Blessed Perfection.  When the meal was cooked and made ready all those who had slept would wake, eat and go to sleep again.  These two men would then wash all the dishes and pack them up.  By this time they would be so tired that they could have slept on even a hard boulder.
During the journey when they became utterly weary they would sleep while walking.  Now and again I would see one of them take a bound and leap from one point to another.  It would then become apparent that he was asleep and had dreamed that he had reached a wide creek-hence the jump.
In a word, from Baghdád to Sámsún they served with rare faithfulness.  Indeed no human being had the fortitude to bear cheerfully all this heavy labour.  But, because they were kindled (by the spirit of God) they performed all these services with greatest happiness.  I remember how, in the early morning, when
page 278
we wanted to start for another caravanserai, we often saw these two men fast asleep.  We would go and shake them and they would wake with much difficulty.  While walking they always chanted communes and supplications.
In those days a famine raged all along the road.  When we reached a station Mírzá Ja'far and I would ride from one village to another, from one Arab or Kurdish tent to another trying to get food, straw, barley, etc., for men and animals.  Many a time we were out till midnight.
One day we happened to call on a Turk who was harvesting.  Seeing his large pile of straw we thought we had come to the end of our search.  I approached the Turk politely, and said, "We are your guests and one of the conditions of (religious) Faith is to honour the newly arrived guests.  I have heard that you are a very liberal people, very generous, and that whenever you entertain a guest you kill and cook for him a whole sheep.  Now, we desire such and such a thing, and are ready to pay any price that you demand.  We hope this is sufficiently reasonable."
He thought for a moment, and then said, "Open your sack."
Mírzá Ja'far opened it and he put into it a few handfuls of straw.
I was amused, and said, "Oh, my friend!  What can we do with this straw?  We have thirty-six animals and we want feed for every one of them!"
In brief, everywhere we encountered many difficulties, until we arrived in Khárpút.  Here, we saw that our animals had become lean, and walked with great difficulty.  But we could not get straw and barley for them.
At Khárpút the Acting Governor-General came to call on us-and with him brought ten car-loads of rice, ten sacks of barley, ten sheep, several baskets of rice, several bags of sugar, many pounds of butter, etc.  These were sent as gifts by the Governor-General, 'Izzat Páshá, to the Blessed Perfection.
After our experiences, and knowing how difficult it was to get anything from the farmers along the way-when I looked at these things I knew that they were sent from God, and they were gladly accepted.
At that time Áqá Husayn-i-Áshchí was the assistant cook.  He worked day and night and had no time to sleep.
We stayed at Khárpút one week and had a good rest.  For two days and nights I did nothing but sleep.
The Governor-General, 'Izzat Páshá, called on the Blessed Perfection.  He was a very good man and showed much love and service.-Recorded by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.


XIII:10, January 1923
page 282
On Mount Carmel
"The Garden of God"
Miss Genevieve L. Coy, after a wonderful visit in the Holy Land, in Constantinople and among the Bahá'í groups along the way, and notwithstanding the many rigors of the journey arrived the last of September in Tihrán to begin her work of service there.  She writes of the marvellous kindness of the friends in the many cities and of the wonderful bond between the Orient and Occident which has been established by the Bahá'í teachings.  Describing her visit in Haifa, Miss Coy writes:
Pilgrim House, Haifa; Palestine.
1 June 1922.
Palestine in the beginning of summer is a very different country from Palestine in late August.  Green fields, many flocks of black goats, many herds of black and white cattle, herdsmen in tattered garments, flash past one as the train goes northward.  Trees with long green leaves, along some small brook-white melons ripening in the fields-the blue, blue sea breaking in whitest foam on the yellow sand!  And then the curve of Mount Carmel, 'Akká white in a misty distance, and the Tomb of the Báb on the mountainside.  It all seems a dream from which I must awaken soon-to be here again in this blessed land!  The air is fragrant with many flowers, the breeze is cool and sweet-God's peace breathes about one.
At the station many people lined the track.  Suddenly I saw a hand waved and Mírzá Lutfu'lláh was at the car-window.  It was so good to see him!  Outside the train another young Bahá'í, who clerks at the station, joined us for a moment, then went back to his work.  We found a carriage-and again I was carried up the steep streets to the beloved Pilgrim House.
To come back to the Pilgrim House is to come back home.  Its dear peace and quiet fill one's heart.  I love its high-ceilinged rooms-the faint fragrance that greets one-the cleanliness-the tiled
page 283
floors, the beautiful rugs.  As I sit here writing I can see the top of the Master's house, above the wall.  The two gateways are covered with a riot of bougainvillaea, masses of dark-red blossoms, hundreds of them, almost hide the green leaves.  If I stand at the window I can look up to the Tomb and the Músáfir Khánih, halfway up the mountainside.
2 June 1922.
Mírzá Lutfu'lláh and I left the Pilgrim House at six o'clock, and climbed up the Mountain of the Lord, to the Tomb.  The morning was beautifully fresh and clear.  The sun was high in the heavens when we reached the Tomb-but the garden looked delightfully fresh and green and cool.
The caretaker of the Tomb, 'Abbás Qulí, came and opened the door into the Tomb of the Báb, and then into the room that is the Master's.  We left our shoes at the door, and entered first the Tomb of the Báb.  To be again in that place, at that threshold in prayer-what words can tell what it means to one's heart and spirit?  It is so perfectly natural and easy to pray there.  One's prayer knows no weariness.  One realizes God so near, that one needs make no effort to find Him.  "Love divine, all love excelling" becomes the supreme reality.  Prayer for all the friends in America, all the Bahá'ís, prayer with all the devotion of my spirit for the dear ladies of the Master's household and for Shoghi Effendi, that the divine love may bring them perfect comfort and spiritual joy!
And then we went into that room which I had never before entered-the Master's shrine.  In physical furnishings it is like that of the Báb.  The outer room is slightly larger, I think, and the outer door is not directly in line with the inner door.  Lovely rugs are on the floor, copies of one or two Tablets are on the walls.  I stood at the outer doorway a long time, trying to realize the meaning of the place to which I had come.  Then I knelt at the inner threshold a moment-afterwards a little away from it.  Mírzá Lutfu'lláh placed on the threshold the jasmine flowers that he had brought in from the garden.  We prayed silently for a long time.  The Master's spirit dwells there in peace and love.  What one feels, or how, I do not know.  It is the triumph of life.  I suppose for those who were here at the Master's funeral, who saw his body laid in that room, there must be associations of great sadness and loneliness with that spot-but for those who come to Haifa to find his love and his service in the lives of the friends, for those the Tomb of the Master is a place of joy.  One knows as never before the victory of life that never ceases, but only changes its form.  Words cannot suggest it.  It is one of the gifts of God that He sends to those who long for union with the Beloved One.
When we left the Tomb, 'Abbás Qulí asked us to come to his house for tea.  He took us up to the top of the house to the little room that was built especially for 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  It has windows north, south, and west and a door to the east; from each there is a wonderful view.  To the north, the bay and 'Akká; to the east, the valley of "Achor"; to the south, the slopes of Mount Carmel, where the girls' school is to be built; to the west, the Tomb.  Here, in this little room the Master used to stay; often at night the friends would hear him walking about on the house-top, chanting.  Here he used to receive the notables of the town and country.  In the room is the bed the Master used to use, and also the chair, in which he used to sit out in front of the Tomb, when meetings were held there.  Above the bed are now hung many pictures of the Master, alone, and with groups of friends.  'Abbás Qulí talked to us for quite a long time about the Master and the days he had spent there near the Tomb.  He told about the building of that upper room.  The Master had said that he would like a room there near the Tomb.  He asked 'Abbás Qulí if he could not build him one, and the care-taker of the Tomb said, yes, where would the Master like to have it.  The Master suggested that he would like to have it on the top of the house.  'Abbás Qulí said that the walls of the house were not strong enough to have another story built on top of them.  Then the Master said that he would like to have it built in the garden, or above the Tomb.  'Abbás Qulí said that much excavation would be required for that.  Finally the
page 284
Master said, "Never mind; do not trouble about it."  Not long after that one of the friends had built for the Master a little room on top of the stable, at the Master's house.  Then the Master said to 'Abbás Qulí, "Could you not build a house like that on the roof?" and he said "Oh, yes."  The Master said, "But I thought that you told me you could not build a room on top of your house!"  So 'Abbás Qulí said, "But a small room like that would have thin walls, and that could easily be built."  The Master smiled and said, "Very good!" and so the room was built.
'Abbás Qulí has a most radiant smile!  As he talked of the Master he smiled all the time!  He made me feel the joy of the Master, even when he was speaking Persian, and I did not know what he said.  He spoke quite slowly, and I could occasionally understand a word that gave me the trend of his thought.  He said that the Master said that he had seen many wonderful views in his travels in Europe and America, but that none of them were as beautiful as the view from his little room on top of 'Abbás Qulí's house!


XIII:10, January 1923
page 284
The eye of reality
Corinne True
One of the beautiful lessons given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá when we were about to leave his prison home in 'Akká, Syria, 1907, after six heavenly days spent in that sacred spot-from the outside a Prison, but inside a Paradise:-to leave the home of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and go back to the world and its people seemed very, very difficult, once having partaken of its heavenly atmosphere and quaffed from the wine of true brotherhood.  'Abdu'l-Bahá saw from the tears which simply would flow in rivulets from our eyes that the task was hard for us, so he told us that when we went back to the world "we must look upon every human being we saw as a letter from the Beloved to us."  "No matter," said the dear Master, "how blotted, blurred, torn or soiled that letter appears to be, nevertheless, you must look upon it with the eye of reality and say to yourself, this is a letter from my Beloved, therefore, because it is from Him, I must love it with that divine love and overlook all its defects-inasmuch as the Beloved wrote it."  It must be our love and devotion to God, the Beloved, that gives us a sin covering eye and welcomes all as the children of the One Heavenly Father.


XIII:10, January 1923
page 284
The message from Shoghi Effendi
This is the morning of the fourth day in the glorious unfolding of the Bahá'í Cause.  Our brothers in Baghdád have brought this out most beautifully in the Persian section of this issue.  With the Báb, in Persia, there dawned the first morning of the new day of unity.  When he was martyred night fell upon the Cause.  Then Bahá'u'lláh arose and the sun dawned in full glory.  When he departed from this world there fell upon his followers the night of sorrow and separation.  Again the sun dawned, in 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and a wonderful new day blazed forth.  With 'Abdu'l-Bahá's passing night fell once more upon the sorrowing hearts of his friends.  But the radiant morning of the fourth day has now broken in glory.  The sun of unity and peace has dawned from Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Cause.  After a six months' absence he returned to the Holy Land and sends all the Bahá'í friends in America the following beautiful message:
"The onward march of the Cause hath not been nor can it ever be stayed.  I pray the Almighty that my efforts now refreshed and renewed may with your undiminished support lead it to glorious victory."-Cablegram sent 16 December 19221.


XIII:11, February 1923
page 294
Our trip to Haifa in the summer of 1922
Stanwood Cobb
As many friends have considered it hazardous to undertake a trip to Palestine and the Near East in the summer, it may be of interest to give our experiences.  Of course we should have preferred the winter for such a journey, but like many others we were free only in the summer months and we determined to take advantage of our opportunity in spite of climatic disadvantages.
First a word as to route.  We found it impossible to get any definite information in this country concerning routes, sailings, and prices, through to Haifa; and even in London information was difficult to get and inaccurate.  Therefore we will here share our information, acquired through difficult experience.
There are lines that sail directly from New York to the Near East; but they are Greek lines, with small boats and infrequent sailings, and this route is not to my mind advisable.
The quickest way to reach Haifa (also the most agreeable and as inexpensive as any) is as follows:  by boat to England or the Continent; by rail across the Continent to Trieste; by boat to Alexandria; by rail from Alexandria to Haifa.  The time consumed is as follows:  New York to the Continent, from six to eleven days, according to the boat; across the Continent to Trieste, one to two days; Trieste to Alexandria (by express boats of the Lloyd Tristine which has weekly sailings, or by express boats of the Servitzime Italiano which has bi-weekly sailings), three to four days; by rail from Alexandria to Haifa, one and a half days.  Minimum time from New York to Haifa, twelve days.  Minimum expense, about six hundred dollars round trip.  Boat fares are rapidly coming down and next summer the same trip probably would cost less than five hundred dollars.
As to summer climate in the Near East, I will say that we were agreeably surprised to find how comfortable travel was under such conditions.  We were not in the least made uncomfortable by the heat nor did we suffer any unhealthful effects from it, except in Haifa itself which has a bad summer climate.  One should never move hurriedly in the Near East, nor expose oneself to the sun any more than is absolutely necessary.  One should avoid native water and some uncooked foods such as salads.  One should conserve one's energy.  By following these rules one may travel in safety and comfort in Egypt and Palestine in mid-summer.  In
page 295
fact, our train ride from Egypt to Haifa and return was most cool and comfortable, much more so than many a train in America in the summer season.
A trip to the Near East, apart from the glorious privilege of visiting Haifa, is most fascinating.  Life is so different in the Orient, and the Orientals have many truths to teach us.  Their simplicity of life, their calm and placid demeanour under almost all circumstances, their nearness to God, are qualities which the Western world must also acquire if it is to maintain its sanity and health.
These qualities are of course to be found in the highest degree in the Oriental Bahá'ís, who radiate peace and joy and love.  It is always an inspiration to meet the Oriental friends; and they seem to feel an equal joy in meeting us.  This joy that comes from the mingling and sympathetic union of the East and of the West is one of the great blessings that God has reserved for this marvellous century.  It has never been attained before.  It is like two destined lovers who have grown up in utter ignorance of each other, yet all the time acquiring those complementary qualities which are to make their coming union rich and happy.
On the other hand, the time has come when the unfriendly relation which from time immemorial has existed between the East and the West must cease.  Ever since the conquests of Alexander the Great the Western world has sought to dominate the East by force, cruelly exploiting it and waxing fat and luxurious from the industry and labour of the Asiatics.  This is the century of justice between all men and all races; and a spirit is rising in the East which will eventually change this Western dominance.  We were aware of this spirit in Egypt and Palestine and Syria.  Persia is alive with it.  From friends who have visited India we get the same story.  And events in Asia Minor are but precursors of the embarrassment of Europe if it persists in trying to dominate Asia.
This spirit, which disquiets most Occidentals and which has given rise to much alarmist literature, serves only as an inspiration to Bahá'ís who see in it the signs of the dawning of a new day.
Likewise events in Europe show a condition desperate to the ordinary observation.  So great are the hatreds now existing between the different races of Europe that it would seem as if nothing but
page 296
another great war could be the outcome.  One person said to Mrs Cobb, "We hate the whole world!"  She asked, "Do you hate Americans?" "Yes!" was his answer, more honest than tactful.
A Rumanian lady, for some years a resident of this country, whom we met in the compartment of the train from Vienna to Paris, then on her way back to America after a rather unsatisfactory visit to her native town, told us most graphically of the hatreds between the neighbouring little countries of the Balkan peninsula.  So much do the Hungarians dislike the Rumanians, and vice-versa, that either race when travelling in the other country finds it wise to disguise its nationality.  If this be so, how great must be the hatred between Greeks and Bulgarians, and especially, between Greeks and Turks!
The despair in the conquered countries is terrible.  A well dressed lady, widow of an Austrian officer, spoke to us bitterly of the desolate life now confronting her.  Not only were living conditions almost unendurable, but in the present chaotic economic state of central Europe for which no relief is in sight, what future could she look forward to for her boy of fourteen?  For what profession should she train him?  The outlook was equally dismal for all the customary professions.
To me this seems the greatest tragedy of all, that no hope for improvement and amelioration lies in the rising generation.  For their children, parents see nothing but the darkest outlook.
I would not thus dwell upon the gloom in Europe, were it not to Bahá'í vision a sign of the fulfilment of the prelude to the coming of the Kingdom; and a most clear demonstration that nothing but the power of the love of God can save the world.  For as Buddha said, "Verily, not by hatred does hatred cease, but only by love does hatred cease."  And 'Abdu'l-Bahá has told us so many times that only the power of the Holy Spirit working in the hearts of men can bring about peace and restore prosperity to the world.
As for our nine days in Haifa, they were days naturally full of spiritual inspiration.  I was especially privileged in visiting on several occasions the Holy Family, a favour not hitherto granted to male pilgrims to Haifa.  They told us intimate details of the life and passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá;-how he refused every comfort which his family tried to secure for his last days, how upon his death he had hardly one change of clothing.  Anything above this amount of clothing he had always given away.  Thus his life stands out as a beacon light, pointing to others the way of service.
We made many visits and prayers at the tombs of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and of the Báb.  From the beautiful garden surrounding the tombs we looked down the mountain side to the sea, already perceiving in our imagination the glorious parkway which shall one day rise from the Mediterranean to the Holy Tombs.  Even now the authorities of Haifa are planning to construct such a boulevard, thus fulfilling the prophecy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
The information conveyed to us by a Jewish girl, a Zionist from Jerusalem whom we met on the train and talked with at some length, gave us an inspiring vision of what Haifa will attain to in the not far distant future, if the Jewish plans for the development of Palestine are carried out.  Haifa they intend to make the chief port of the eastern Mediterranean surpassing Beirut and rivalling Alexandria and Constantinople.  Haifa is situated much more advantageously for trade with the vast hinterland of Mesopotamia than is Beirut or any other city of Syria or Palestine.  It has splendid possibilities as a harbour.  The plan is to make a vast sea-wall and construct great docks at which the largest of ships can unload.
Not only will Haifa flourish but all Palestine, under the impetus given by Jewish energy and capital.  An irrigation project is already under way which will embrace practically all of Palestine and make it blossom like the rose.  Under the protection of Great Britain Jewish capital will more and more flow to Palestine, and within this generation it will undoubtedly become one of the garden spots of the world.  Thus is prophecy fulfilled.
page 297
I will mention two experiences while at Haifa, experiences of the inner spiritual life which I shall never forget.  One of these experiences came from the extraordinary privilege I had, while visiting the Bahjí or tomb of Bahá'u'lláh, of sitting in the armchair in the chamber of Bahá'u'lláh, where 'Abdu'l-Bahá so often sat looking out over the plains of 'Akká to the sea.  For just a minute I sat in this chair, and for just that minute I was abstracted from all worldly sensation and lifted to the plane of the Kingdom.  Such a heavenly peace flowed about me as I had never experienced before, not even when in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's presence.  It was a feeling not only of peace but of exaltation, as being above the distractions and anxieties and dangers of this world.  Clearly I was on another plane of being, though physically upon this earth.  It was such a wonderful experience that I silently beckoned my wife, who was sitting on the couch, to exchange places with me.  While in the armchair, she felt this same uplift and supreme happiness.  On the couch we both had, on the other hand, merely the feeling of spiritual peace such as belongs to this earth plane at its best.  Truly we had for that supreme moment rested with heavenly souls upon the fields of God.  No wonder that martyrs sing as they approach the moment of their release from the cage of life!
The other experience that I referred to was that of beholding for the first time the photograph of Bahá'u'lláh.  As I gazed upon his countenance, so massive and so full of majesty and power, I felt that adoration and devotion which led men to become his humble followers while he was a prisoner in a penal colony, and which inspired these ardent followers to spread his gospel throughout the world,-"with a thousand longings sacrificing themselves to the Eternal Beloved."
It was not a feeling of personal devotion which swept over me.  It was rather an awe and worship of the majesty of the law which Bahá'u'lláh personified.  As I looked into that Face I perceived the import and power of that Message which he brought for the healing of the nations.  I realized that his laws were divine laws,
page 298
as were those of Moses, only far greater and destined to be the foundation of a divine civilization.  Before the awful majesty of such a law, as incarnated in Bahá'u'lláh, one could but prostrate oneself, body and soul; and feel that the greatest privilege this life afforded was to work to help bring this civilization to pass.
Such was the power of Bahá'u'lláh, conveyed even through a photograph.  And when his sacred shoes were put into my hands I heard as it were the footsteps of them echoing around the world, the footsteps of One from the mountain-top bearing good news.  I had prayed at the tomb of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to have a clearer realization of the station of Bahá'u'lláh.  My prayer had been graciously answered.
The day will come when every jot and tittle of this Law will be worshipped by mankind, not only because of its divine origin, but because it will have been the means of bringing to this world the happiest and most perfect civilization it has ever known.


XIII:11, February 1923
page 298
The Knighting of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The following beautiful description of this event was written by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí who was at that time in Haifa:
"Among the kings and governments of the world who have become convinced that 'Abdu'l-Bahá was the well-wisher and the lover of mankind are King George and his government.  The King sent a medal to 'Abdu'l-Bahá with the title, "Sir", thus making him a member of his household.  On the 27 April 1920, the Governor and high officials of Haifa, Palestine presented in a beautiful garden a most wonderful celebration for the knighting of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Bahá'í pilgrims from Persia, America and all parts of the world were present.  Muslim, Christian, Jewish leaders, clergymen, notables and local officials from Haifa, 'Akká and other towns attended.  A tent was pitched in the centre of the garden.  English troops stood on both sides, from the gate of the garden to the centre where 'Abdu'l-Bahá was seated.  The military music added wonderful melody to the rustling leaves of the beautiful trees.  The breezes of the spring on that sunny afternoon imparted a remarkable vigour to the physical body just as the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahá strengthened the souls.  The Governor stood behind 'Abdu'l-Bahá and, after a short speech, interpreted by Mr Wadi' Bustání, presented the medal.  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá, rising from his seat, gave a brief talk and a prayer for the British government."


XIII:11, February 1923
page 300
An Epistle of Bahá'u'lláh
O thou Muhammad!  Rejoice in thy soul because of that which hath descended upon thee-a book, holy and priceless within which is that which severeth thee from the kingdom of heaven and earth and leadeth thee to the threshold of manifest glory.
Say:  Glory be unto Thee!  O God!  My God!  Thou seest my weakness, my helplessness, my distress and my poverty.  Therefore send Thou to me from the fragrances of Thy holiness that which, though it be no larger than an ant, will, if it breathes upon (those that are) first and last, transform them into kings of Thy luminous beauty and honour them with the light of Thy manifest countenance.
O my God!  I am he who hath held firmly to Thy strong support in Thy flawless and wonderful Word and hath grasped the hem of Thy bounty in Thy Name, the Supreme, the Exalted, the Omniscient.  Therefore, O my God! as Thou hast honoured me with Thy meeting and hast acquainted me with the Manifestation of Thy Self deprive me not of the river of paradise which Thou hast caused to flow by the right side of Thy exalted Throne and withhold me not, O my God! from attaining to Thy inaccessible grace and Thy ancient favour which descendeth from the clouds of Thy exalted mercy.
Say:  O people!  In the name of God the True One!  The First Point (the Báb) hath appeared in this Word, were ye of those who know.  The fire of oneness hath become apparent in this high tree which overshadoweth all living beings.
Say:  Verily, the Holy Spirit hath appeared in a new garment.
Say:  Verily, the rod (of Moses) in this white and luminous hand is uttering praises.
Say:  Verily, the beauty of God hath been sent forth from the veil of light Exalted is God, the King of Kings!
Say:  Verily, the veil of mystery hath been torn asunder and the Youth hath appeared from the dawning point of His Name, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  This is He who hath not been comprehended by the knowledge of anyone nor by the wisdom of those who have attained.  He speaketh now from the vault of heaven summoning all in the heavens and earth; announcing to all the glad tidings of the rose garden of God and calling them to a holy and praiseworthy station.
Say:  Whosoever doth not purify his heart from the veils of imitations will never be in the presence of this shining and exalted countenance.
O Muhammad!  Soar thou in this atmosphere with the wings of severance and fear no one.  Trust in God, thy Lord, the Bountiful, the Mighty, the Omnipotent.  Turn not to anyone, even if harm should befall thee from all living beings.  Summon the people to God and to that which hath been revealed in the Book of Bayán and be thou not of those who fear.
Say:  O people!  Fear God!  Obey the laws of God with body and soul and be not of the heedless lest negligence take you away from the point of nearness.
Say:  Glory be unto Thee, O God!  My God!  I ask Thee by Thy Name by which Thou dost wipe out disobedience with forgiveness and changest punishment into mercy and dost usher the guilty into the tent of Thy glorious pardon:  permit me not to be alone, for less than an instant, even.  Sever not the rope of Thy favour.  Debar me not from His meeting in the day wherein the eyes are dazzled, the minds of the wise are perplexed and the feet of the well informed slip.
page 301
O my God!  Thou art He who hath ever been the King and the Creator of the universe, the Ruler and the Maker of living beings.  Thou art He whose mercy surpasseth all things and whose favour is greater than all that is in heaven and earth.  Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent, the Mighty, the Supreme, the Beloved, the Wise.  Therefore, O my God!  I am sheltered by Thy dominion and power and protected by Thy grace and favour.  Deprive me not of Thy mercy and favour and keep me not from the rose garden of Thy love and mentioning.
Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent, the Beloved, and to Thy servants Thou art the Clement!
(Signed) 152 (Bahá) Seal (Husayn 'Alí)
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí.
Note:  A photograph of the original of this Tablet appears in the Persian section, on page 317 of this issue.  It is signed by numbers which represent the name "Bahá", a code form used in the days of persecution, and by the seal of Bahá'u'lláh (Husayn 'Alí).


XIII:11, February 1923
page 301
Seven cities in the spiritual journey to God
Compiled from an Address by Jinábí Fádil
Bahá'u'lláh wrote two books each of which he called The Seven Valleys.  They were revealed at the request of an Islamic philosopher, one of the Súfís.  This man was attracted to the Cause when Bahá'u'lláh was living at Sámarrá.  He asked Bahá'u'lláh many questions and many epistles were revealed in reply to these questions.  The Persian Seven Valleys has been translated into English.  It is the untranslated Arabic one which I will explain to you.
The title of this book is The Seven Cities.  It describes the spiritual journey of those who wish to approach God.  It begins in this way:
"O thou traveller in the path of justice!  O ye who are gazing toward the beauty of God!  Your letter has been received.  I carefully read your questions and heard the melodies which emanated from the tabernacle of your heart.  The clouds of the will of God are rising that the rain of wisdom may shower upon you and wash away that which you have received from others."  That is to say, you will be purified from previous ideas and inclinations and prejudices; your attitude will be changed and you will be led to the oneness of the mind of God and guided to the holy law of God in order that you may drink from this eternal river and your soul may become tranquil, your thirst may be quenched, your heart be made ready and you may become one of those who are lighted by the illumination of God.
I  Investigation
If the traveller wishes to accomplish this journey and attain to the mysteries of God and pass through all these stages of God he must first of all enter into the City of Investigation.  When he enters this city of Search or Investigation he must sever himself from everything but God.  He must become selfless and lose his will in the will of God, must pass over everything which is in earth and heaven.  There must be in his heart no hatred of anyone neither especial attachment to anyone.  That is to say, he must love all humanity impartially, not having special love for special people since this love or hatred might prevent him from attaining to reality.
Another thing which is incumbent upon the traveller is that he should purify
page 302
himself from pride, selfishness and ambition.  He must never show any sign of selfishness; he must not be proud of his education, his property or position.  When he has characterized himself with these attributes he will then arrive at the City of the Investigation of God.  All that he asks God will there make manifest and will show to him His many paths.  God will make His illumined path clear to him for He says:  "Those who are endeavouring to find us and are searching after Us according to the aforementioned conditions, it will be Our intention to make Ourself known to them."
The traveller who starts out upon this journey will see many changes along the way.  The wonders of God and the mysteries of creation will become manifest to him and he will be informed concerning the path of God and the path of guidance.  This is the first city, the City of Search and Investigation, and the requirement for this city is perfect severance-severance from all save God.
II  Love
If we become purified from love and hatred then we can enter into the City of Love.
In this place the divine zephyrs of God will waft upon the traveller; his heart will become filled with the love of God to such an extent that he will completely forget his personal self and will know nothing save God.  He will entirely forget himself and his own personality.  Sometimes he is grieving because of separation and is burning and blazing with the fire of supplication.  Sometimes he is joyous and happy.  Sometimes he is grieving; sometimes discouraged and restless; sometimes perplexed and agitated.  He is anxiously awaiting his especial command from God-waiting with all his heart and soul-that he may sacrifice his soul and body in the path of God.  If we greatly persecute him he will take it with utmost joy and happiness.  He will live in such a state that he will kiss the hands of his executioners, and is ever ready to sacrifice his life and property in the path of God.  If he be thrown headlong into the fire he will be cold; if drowned in the ocean he will be dry.  This is the station of the love of God.  These are the attributes of the one who has attained to the City of Search and has entered into the City of Love.
Question:  "Will not the traveller have a definite object, in the Manifestation of God as the object of his love?"
Answer:  Some persons pass rapidly through these seven valleys.  He who searches for Truth, who longs to know right from wrong, seeks to find God's Manifestation for he realizes his inability to understand God's Essence.  He knows there can be no salvation without the Manifestation of God.  He wishes to find the mystery of Manifestation, to grasp the Centre of Lights.  Then he becomes a lover of Truth.
III  Unity
The third city is the City of Divine Oneness.  When man's heart becomes filled with love then he sees oneness; he does not see differences.  He sees that all things and all objects are looking toward one centre.  He sees unity among mankind.  He sees unity among the Manifestations of God.  He sees unity and amity among the friends of God and he sees one underlying principle of unity in the teachings of God.  He sees nothing but union in union; he does not see differences.  He gazes upon everything in existence with respect and homage because he considers all as existing in God, as signs of Divinity.  He sees the rays of the Manifestation of God enveloping all the world of existence.  He is never haughty toward anyone.  He never magnifies himself.  At every instant he feels himself living by the power of the Almighty God.  He does not wish for himself what he does not wish for others.  He does not say to others what he does not wish said to himself.  This is the station of oneness.  Such persons are sailing in the ark of guidance.  The rays of the beauty of God are manifest in their faces and we can inhale the fragrances of God from their words.  These are the characteristics of those who have attained to this city.
page 303
IV  Amazement
After the third valley, the valley of Oneness, there comes the valley of Amazement and Surprise.  When man reaches this stage he is filled with wonder at the world of God.  He is submerged in the world of God, is unconscious of himself.  This is the state of amazement.
There were in 'Akká a large number of people who were amazed because of the beauty of the Beloved (which Bahá'u'lláh revealed to them).  They would get up three hours before dawn and would walk around the house of Bahá'u'lláh many times.  Then, when the time for the meeting arrived, Bahá'u'lláh would call them in and talk with them.  They were like lovers who were lost in the beauty of God the Beloved.  They were amazed.  There are people now who have attained to this station.
V  Selflessness
After this stage there comes the City of Selflessness.  In this city man dies in the will of God.  That is, his selfish personality dies away.  He forgets himself, forgets his body and soul and swims in the ocean of selflessness.  He becomes unconscious of himself, of his personal existence.  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh states that the mysteries of this city of selflessness are myriad for this is the city of the evanescence of the lover in the Beloved.  When we reach the city of selflessness then the beauty of the Beloved becomes manifest to us.  Unless we are selfless we cannot see that reality.  If self is forgotten then reality will take the place of self.
VI  Immortality
After this city or valley comes the City of Immortality, where the traveller forgets his will.  He wishes only what God wishes.  The attributes of God will clearly appear within him.  His life will become a divine life.
VII  The unseen
After the station of Immortality comes the station of the Unseen, or of Invisibility.  His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh says that this invisible city is an unfathomable and limitless ocean.  This is the world of the Divine Attributes.  The Sun of the Unseen dawns from this Dawning-Place of Invisibility.  Bahá'u'lláh says that this is a vast city and very few have entered this city; and no one knows anything about this city of the Unseen save the Manifestations of God and God Himself.
Summary
Everyone enters into the valley of Search and Investigation, because if we do not arise for the investigation of God we will never reach God, will know nothing of His attributes.  If we do not arise for the search of Divinity we will know nothing about Divinity; unless we are thirsty we will not appreciate water.  The more we desire to know Truth the sooner we will arrive at reality.  Those who are thirstiest will most appreciate water.
One can easily tell the denizens of each city.  One can easily tell that such a man is in the first city; another man has entered the city of love; another is passing into the city of oneness, and one can easily see that some people are confounded and amazed.
Some even travel through the city of Amazement and enter the city of Selflessness.  Those people have annihilated their will in the will of the Glory of God.  They are martyrs; they are living, and walking about, but they are really martyrs.  This is what is called the City of Selflessness, and this can easily be recognized and discerned.  Some have traversed this station and have reached the station of immortality.
Bahá'u'lláh says that the traveller will have a test in each city.  If he does not pass that test he must go back to the first stage.  It is difficult to overcome these tests which are in our way, yet, in order to progress we must conquer our selfishness and pride.  All these cities are very difficult; but the first is the most difficult-to become characterized with the first conditions.  The condition for the first city is severance, that is, severance from everything except the love of God.


XIII:11, February 1923
page 307
The origin of race colour
A Tablet from 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
To Mr Thomas Maxwell, Chicago, Illinois.-Upon him be greetings and praise.
O thou who art striving for the welfare of the world of humanity!  The contents of thy letter were in accordance with the facts.  Indeed, the world of humanity is like one kindred and one family.  Because of the climatic differences of the zones, through the passing of ages, colours have become different.  In the torrid zone, on account of the intensity of the effect of the sun throughout the ages the black race appeared.  In the frigid zone, on account of the severity of the cold and the ineffectiveness of the heat of the sun throughout the ages the white race appeared.  In the temperate zone, the yellow, brown and red races came into existence.  But in reality mankind is one race.  Because it is of one race unquestionably there must be unity and harmony and no separation or discord.
God be praised!  The animal, notwithstanding that it is a captive of nature and nature completely dominates it, does not attach importance to colour.  For instance, thou dost behold that the black, white, yellow, blue and other coloured pigeons are in utmost harmony with one another.  They never give importance to colour.  Likewise sheep and the beasts are in utmost love and unity.  But man is peculiar in that he has made colour the means of strife.  Between the white and the black there is the utmost estrangement and discord.  When we enter a rose garden we behold how beautiful is the display of variegated flowers.  The difference of colour is the adornment of the rose garden.  Were it of one colour it would not have such splendour.  The adornment of the rose garden is this, that it contains roses of variegated colour.
Thus it becomes evident that difference of colour is the adornment of the world of humanity.  Therefore it must not be the cause of discord.
I hope that you with your soul may strive and become a cause of establishing harmony and love between the black and the white.
Upon thee be greetings and praise!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Dr Díyá M. Baghdádí, 14 August 1922, Chicago, Illinois.


XIII:12, March 1923
page 323
Bahá'í organization
Its basis in the Revealed Word.
[Quotations have been replaced with newer translations where available.]
Organization in the Bahá'í Movement rests upon the sure foundation of the Word of God.
In this day when many liberal minded people rebel against the restraint to which they sincerely think organization subjects them-it is well to present some of the vital needs for organization which the Bahá'í Teachings make evident.
Bahá'u'lláh touches the heights of Truth when he says:
"We find some men desiring liberty, and priding themselves therein.  Such men are in the depths of ignorance.
"Liberty must, in the end, lead to sedition, whose flames none can quench. ...  Know ye that the embodiment of liberty and its symbol is the animal.  That which beseemeth man is submission unto such restraints as will protect him from his own ignorance, and guard him against the harm of the mischief-maker.  Liberty causeth man to overstep the bounds of propriety, and to infringe on the dignity of his station.  It debaseth him to the level of extreme depravity and wickedness.
...
"... True liberty consisteth in man's submission unto My commandments, little as ye know it.  Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect liberty."1
"The Lord hath ordained that in every city a House of Justice be established wherein shall gather counsellors to the number of Bahá, and should it exceed this number it doth not matter.  They should consider themselves as entering the Court of the presence of God, the Exalted, the Most High, and as beholding Him Who is the Unseen.  It behoveth them to be the trusted ones of the Merciful among men and to regard themselves as the guardians appointed of God for all that dwell on earth.  It is incumbent upon them to take counsel together and to have regard for the interests of the servants of God, for His sake, even as they regard their own interests, and to choose that which is meet and seemly."1
'Abdu'l-Bahá in Some Answered Questions says:
"When the laws of the Most Holy Book are enforced, contentions and disputes will find a final sentence of absolute justice before a general tribunal of the nations and kingdoms, and the difficulties that appear will be solved.  The five continents of the world will form but one, the numerous nations will become one, the surface of the earth will become one land, and mankind will be a single community."2
Other quotations from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá follow:
Absolute equality amongst men:  "Equality is a chimera!  It is entirely impracticable!  Even if equality could be achieved it could not continue-and if its existence were possible, the whole order of the world would be destroyed.  The law of order must always obtain in the world of humanity. ...
"Some are full of intelligence, others have an ordinary amount of it, and others again are devoid of intellect.  In these three classes of men there is order but not equality.  How could it be possible that wisdom and stupidity should be equal?  Humanity, like a great army, requires a general, captains, under-officers in their degree, and soldiers, each with their own appointed duties.  Degrees are absolutely necessary to ensure an orderly organization."3
"The Universal Principles which are the foundation of the Religion of God are laid down; but the making of specific laws which are the sub-divisions and ramifications is apportioned to the House
page 324
of Justice.  The wisdom of this is that this world never moves for a long period in one form.  The House of justice will make laws applicable to the exigencies and requirements of the time.  Its members will not form institutions according to their own judgement and thought.  The Most Great House of Justice enacts laws and statutes by the power of inspiration and the confirmation of the Holy Spirit and is under the protection of God."
"About fifty years ago in the Book of Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh commanded the people to establish the universal peace, and summoned all the nations to the Divine Banquet of International Arbitration, so that the questions of boundaries, of national honour and property and of vital interests between nations might be decided by an Arbitral Court of Justice; and that no nation dare to refuse to abide by their decisions.  If any quarrel arise between two nations, it must be adjudicated by this International Court and be arbitrated and decided upon like the judgement rendered by the judge between two individuals.  If at any time any nation dares to break such a treaty, all the other nations must arise to put down this rebellion."4
"Again consider organization and decomposition, existence and non-existence.  Every being is composed of many different constituents; the existence of everything is the expression of organization.  That is to say, when by divine genesis, organization of certain elements occurs, a being is produced.  All existent beings are after this fashion.  But when a defect appears in that compound, and decomposition sets in, the parts separate and that being disintegrates and becomes non-existent.  Thus annihilation of things is an expression of their decomposition and disintegration.  The affinity and organization of the elements make possible the existence."5
"Many an assembly will be organized whose members will be representatives of different nations, tribes and peoples ...  This is through the effect of the Word of God.  If all the powers of the world should convene they could not organize an Assembly like unto these assemblies."6
"The Universal Court of Arbitration is the only body that will resolve all the disagreements and contentions that arise between the nations of the world.  Extraordinary exertion must be put forward by the civilized governments to organize such an influential international organization, before which all their quarrels may be arbitrated.  What better plan can be conceived by man?  What harm is there in this?"7
"All the Governments of the world must be united and organize an Assembly ...."1
"Organize ye Spiritual Assemblies; lay ye the foundation of union and concord in this world; destroy ye the fabric of strife and war from the face of the earth; construct ye the temple of harmony and agreement; enkindle ye the light of the realm of the oneness of humanity; open ye your eyes; gaze and behold ye the other world! The kingdom of peace, salvation, uprightness and reconciliation is founded in the invisible world, and it will by degrees become manifest and apparent through the power of the Word of God!"2
"I want you to be organized like a flock of the doves of heaven, whose attitude and conduct toward each other is a symbol of that unity which will take place among human beings, when human beings shall become willing to accept the guidance of the Holy Spirit."3
"... one of the great principles of Bahá'u'lláh's teachings is the establishment of agreement among the peoples of the world.  He founded and taught this principle in the Orient fifty years ago.  He proclaimed international unity, summoned the religions of the world to harmony and reconciliation and established fellowship among many races, sects and communities.  At that time He wrote Epistles to the kings and rulers of the world, calling upon them to arise and co-operate with Him in spreading these principles, saying that the stability and advancement of humanity could only be realized through the unity of the nations.  Through His efforts this principle of universal harmony and agreement was practically demonstrated in Persia and other countries."4
page 325
In a Tablet addressed to the delegates to the first Bahá'í Temple Unity Convention in 1909 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote:
"Now is the commencement of organization; hence every affair concerning the Kingdom of God is of paramount importance.  Among the most important affairs is the founding of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, although weak minds may not grasp its importance, nay perchance they imagine this to be a temple like other temples.  They say to themselves:  'Every nation has a hundred thousand gigantic temples, what result have they yielded that now this one Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (is said) to cause the manifestation of signs and prove a source of Lights?'  But they are ignorant of the fact that the founding of this Mashriqu'l-Adhkár is to be in the inception of the organization of the Kingdom."5
The Guardian of the Cause, Shoghi Effendi, reaffirms the need of organization in his luminous epistle to the American friends, 5 March 1922, and quotes the following from the writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
"It is incumbent upon every one not to take any step without consulting the Spiritual Assembly, and they must assuredly obey with heart and soul its bidding and be submissive unto it, that things may be properly ordered and well arranged.  Otherwise every person will act independently and after his own judgement, will follow his own desire, and do harm to the Cause."6
"In this day, assemblies of consultation are of the greatest importance and a vital necessity.  Obedience unto them is essential and obligatory.  The members thereof must take counsel together in such wise that no occasion for ill-feeling or discord may arise.  This can be attained when every member expresseth with absolute freedom his own opinion and setteth forth his argument.  Should any one oppose, he must on no account feel hurt for not until matters are fully discussed can the right way be revealed.  The shining spark of truth cometh forth only after the clash of differing opinions.  If after discussion, a decision be carried unanimously, well and good; but if, the Lord forbid, differences of opinion should arise, a majority of voices must prevail."7
The foundation of organization in the Divine Cause is powerfully laid in the above extracts from the Holy and Creative Words, and many others that may be cited.  Deeply impressive is not only the frequent recurrence of the term organization, but also the greatness and scope of what Divine Wisdom now plans and confirms.  Organization becomes a vital element in the new creation.  As the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh brings to light everything needed for the elevation and progress of humanity-the power of organization, through the Might that organizes, will reach maturity and perfection.
It is known that some misapprehension exists as to the need of organization in the Cause.  This has grown out of a widely circulated statement attributed to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that the Bahá'í Cause could never be organized.  The true statement was, as corrected by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that the Bahá'í Cause can never be rigidly organized; it can never be confined to an organization.  The context of the statement tells why, namely:  "It is the Spirit of the Age, the essence of all the highest ideals of the century."
At Haifa, Syria, in 1920, the following question was asked 'Abdu'l-Bahá by some American pilgrims:
"It is misleading, is it not, to say that the Bahá'í Cause cannot be organized?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:  "How is it possible that there should be no organization?  Even in a household if there is not organization there will be hopeless confusion.  Then what about the world?  What is meant is that organization is not rigid!  In ancient times it was rigid.  In the Torah all the political affairs were rigidly fixed, but in this Cause they were not.  In this Cause there is political freedom-i.e., in each time the House of Justice is free to decide in accordance with what is deemed expedient.  This is a brief explanation of the matter."
As the spirit of oneness is in all the Divine Utterances, the perceiving mind can readily discern the harmony of this statement with the many other Words of the Manifestation and the Centre of the Covenant, creating organization.
It must be evident that the mysterious dynamic of the Bahá'í Cause, its holy ideals, its supreme wisdom, its transcend-
page 326
ent love, its heavenly teachings, are from a world beyond man and his power to organize.  The descent of the Holy Spirit is Pure Bounty-absolutely removed from man's power to direct or control.  But that Divine Intelligence, that Luminous Sun now manifested, bestows upon man guidance and order.  Organization in the Bahá'í Cause is not man's feeble and futile efforts, as in centuries past, to organize and control the affairs of God thus multiplying veils of separation and clouding his own insight.  It is rather, as is clearly revealed in the divine plan, the intervention of God to direct and control the affairs of man.  Man's attainment to effective organization comes through obedience to the Ancient of Days and devotion to His Beauty.
The appointment, by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, of Shoghi Effendi as Guardian of the Cause, the provision for the Universal House of Justice, and other vital Laws, give to organization a most eloquent and impressive majesty.  The high goal of order and service to which Shoghi Effendi now invites sincere souls, adds a new impressiveness to Bahá'í organization.
One of the greatest signs of Bahá'í organization is its fluidity, its universal adaptability to the present age, and to succeeding ages and cycles of the world.  It is not exclusive.  It inspires co-operation with the true, the beautiful and the good without as well as within its ranks.  For there are today, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said, prepared souls in all religions.  One thus finds everywhere forward-looking people who have rent the veils of religious bigotry and racial prejudice.  The Divine Command today requires joy and fragrance in consorting with people of all religions.  It invites fellowship with the strong, yet strengthens the poor, the weak and the oppressed.  It welcomes every sincere soul who seeks advancement, yet becomes the mighty fortress of defence against the seditious and corrupt.  Because, as Bahá'u'lláh says:
"Do not associate with the wicked, because the company of the wicked changeth the light of life into the fire of remorse."1
Thus organization under the Divine Instructions becomes the safeguard to the Divine Edifice.  Yet it must never become crystalized with set forms and outworn traditions, the impotence of which today makes merely human organization ineffective for universal service.
Organization, far from being impossible, becomes vital and essential in the growth of the Bahá'í Cause.  The division and classification of service, co-ordinated by the divine plan of unity, will ever make for greater efficiency.
Organization appears in everything that God has created.  From the tiny atom that moves under molecular attraction to the colossal suns that keep their balance with even and majestic tread,-everything moves according to law and order.  Even the body of man is organized.  Pain, suffering and dissolution are the penalty it pays for revolt.  Shall the Intelligence that organized the universe leave the Kingdom of God in man disorganized?
Through organization the great fundamental Principles revealed by Bahá'u'lláh-Consultation and Kindness-will illumine every Assembly.  Through the organization of the people of Light, the pillars that support the order of the world, "reward and retribution" will receive just administration.
Organization facilitates help of the strong to the weak, and of the more efficient to the less efficient.  It applies, day by day, the law of co-operation and interdependence.  It enables an aggrieved but sincere person to have his wrongs righted through the collective wisdom of an illumined group.  If this fails to satisfy, an appeal may be had to the Supreme Court of Guidance.  Organization thus removes differences and upholds the oneness of the Cause.
The exhortations to love and unity, which so often recur in the Bahá'í Teachings, point the sincere to both an inward and outward security.  Esoterically it means turning to the Centre of Light and Guidance.  Exoterically, it is found by supporting with might and main, whatever institution or organization is erected on earth through the Heavenly Power.  The Divine civilization ever requires of man co-operative effort.  Co-operation in its very nature implies organization.  If organization is vital even in small affairs, how much more necessary does it become when human welfare is regulated by the laws of the Kingdom?
page 327
Organization, too, will in the divine purpose preserve the Divine Teachings.  If those who arise to serve, however sincere, construe the meaning of the Holy Words according to their own limitations they may gather around themselves a following, and in this way a multitude of sects will divide the body of the Cause.  According to the Revelation of this day the words of the teacher need only be taken if they agree with what is revealed on the part of God and is recorded in Tablets.  The teacher may at any time be questioned as to his authority.  Should differences arise, they can readily be corrected through the degrees of organization that the divine plan unfolds.  The matter of the physical preservation of the Books and Tablets, their correct translation into tongues other than those in which they are revealed, their spread among the regions of the earth,-are matters too weighty to be entrusted to individual direction.  How soon would priceless treasures be scattered, lose their purity through alterations, and be lost to future generations!  Here again organization proves its great value.
Organization has grown among the friends in America over a period of years.  This has occurred in the natural order of evolution.  In the early days of the Cause in America the few Teachings that were then available would be read by a group of believers, and if a stranger appeared the Message would be historically given.  As members increased, the efforts to reach people of different environments grew, and meetings in public places, publications, etc., were natural steps.  With further progress came the organization of Committees to direct local Assembly work.  Also there came, with the plan to erect a Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (Universal House of Worship), the annual Convention.  Its volume of business, small at first, increased from year to year.  The service of the Convention, as a teaching body, as a temple-builder, as a means of unity, life and harmony among the various Assemblies, has been blessed and glorious!  Yet its increasing responsibilities have entailed division of labour; and various committees have been formed to carry forward the work.  Within the past year, under the instructions of the Guardian of the Cause, Assemblies throughout America have elected from among themselves Spiritual Assemblies, with full control of local affairs.  The National Spiritual Assembly with its Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, Teaching, Publications, Reviewing and Educational Committees, has been entrusted with full service in all Bahá'í affairs pertaining to America.
Bahá'í organization in the Orient, by all authoritative accounts, has reached a higher standard than has yet been possible in the Occident.  There, greater numbers and longer experience are seen; while fiery trials and intense persecutions from without have increased the power and penetration of the inward love that unifies.  The happiness, peace and prosperity of the friends upon every plane are inseparably linked together.  Sweet is the assurance that such a condition, in time, will be found throughout the world.  Our Oriental brothers are ever mindful of the Most Great Guidance and the common weal.  They successfully conduct, in a highly organized way, not only the affairs of the Cause, but co-operative enterprises of a private nature.  Their organizations are so wise and mature as to prove a strong defence against the deceitful and corrupt on the one hand, as well as just administration and loving stimulus to the activities of the friends on the other.  The storehouses of the Spiritual Assemblies kept the friends supplied with food during the recent hardship and distress caused by war; so that not one Bahá'í perished for lack of food.  This occurred at a time when thousands of people were starving.  Such a blessing from organization is its own eulogy.
In Persia the friends have not only a Teaching Committee, but clubs of teachers.  These are organized for the purpose of sharing experiences, avoiding duplication of effort, discussing plans for the work and acquiring greater wisdom and clearer guidance in delivering the Message.
It should be clear that organization, in the Bahá'í sense, is ever spiritual.  Bahá is the revelation of the Abhá Light in this world for the guidance of the people.  To this end God has revealed Himself in His Greatest Manifestation, illumined the earth with His Brightness in the Orb of His Covenant, and today exercises His tender, compassionate Guardianship over
page 328
all the creatures.  Thus in the Bahá'í Cause organization has come into being through the direction and co-operation of the friends in both spiritual and material affairs.  After vainly, through thousands of years, striving to attain peace through material organization of spiritual affairs, man now attains supreme happiness through the spiritual organization of material affairs.  Certainly no harm can result to any one from this.
The pillar of Bahá'í organization is justice; its glory is service; its bright jewel is humility; its banner is trustworthiness; its light is Guidance; its armour is prayer; its treasury is Divine Love; its exalted purpose is unity.  Its members should be free from prejudices against all men.  They should be God-like in their firmness, steadfastness and universality.  They should obey the Centre of life and power and count themselves nothing in His Path.  They should be able to discover their own faults, confess them before God and be able to see the virtues of other people.  They should not choose themselves for positions of honour, but be chosen by others.  Under the Instructions of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, a greater body should be first appointed, from which a smaller body will be elected.  In this simple, quiet way, excitement of elections is avoided and harmony advanced.
The future of Bahá'í organization is bright and glorious.  The Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, around which many institutions will centre,-such as the school for orphans, the hospital, the hospice, the abode for the aged and infirm and the college of applied sciences, will in its very nature as well as administration, require very efficient organization.
The Universal House of Justice, headed by the revered Guardian of the Cause, the various National Spiritual Assemblies and the Spiritual Assemblies to be found in all Cities, the International Arbitral Court and the federation of the world, each and all bespeak the divine evolution of organization to an efficiency undreamed of, with the noblest and most exalted purpose.
The world spiritually organized in the Light of Bahá'í Principles will be the reflection of the Supreme Concourse.
(Signed) Louis G. Gregory, Agnes S. Parsons, Mariam Haney:-who constitute the Committee appointed by The National Spiritual Assembly in January 1923, to prepare this document on Bahá'í Organization.


XIII:12, March 1923
page 330
To the friends in Cleveland
The beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful in Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
Care of the members of the Spiritual Assembly.
My beloved friends,
I trust now that I have returned refreshed and strengthened from my needed retirement, I shall very soon hear from you such news as shall encourage and strengthen me in my labours for His Holy Cause.
I look forward with eager anticipation to the welcome news of increased unity among the loved ones of God, of renewed ardour in their ceaseless service to the Cause and of crowning achievements in their field of service throughout that country.
True, in this day the Light of the Covenant is hidden from mortal eyes, yet the unfading Splendour of His Spirit, freed from earthy limitations, shines more brilliantly than ever before and is sure to guide our steps if we but seek His Guidance and walk steadfastly in His Way.
May the radiance of His Inspiration illumine our hearts and the hope of Eternal Reunion be our stay and solace in these days of bereavement and service to His Cause.
Supplicating the Divine Favours on your behalf,
I am your brother in His Service,
(Signed) Shoghi
Haifa, Palestine, 5 January 1923.


XIII:12, March 1923
page 333
One of God's heroes
Jinábí (Ibn-i-Ábhar) Ayádí, belonged to a noble family in Zanján, Persia.  He was appointed by Bahá'u'lláh as one of the "Four Hands of the Cause", in the days of persecution in the middle of the last century, and he "was the recipient of love and honour from all".  His life was full of service.  Seven times imprisoned by the enemies of the Cause, "he was absolutely fearless", writes one of the friends from Persia, "and when persecution arose, as in the martyrdom of Yazd he individually would carry petitions to the Cabinet Ministers and persons in authority.  One vivid recollection is of seeing him speeding across the public square on such an errand.  Another recollection is that of seeing him, when totally blind, sitting up in his bed on the foot of which squatting in Oriental fashion was an aged Siyyid who had come from far away seeking Ibn-i-Ábhar to teach him the Bahá'í truths.  This man was a stranger to Tihrán; he had heard of the Bahá'í school called Tarbíyat; he searched the city until he found the school and then was directed to the house of Ábhar.
"During the last months of Ibn-i-Ábhar's life, in spite of his suffering he was busy teaching and counselling the friends.  When relating fragments of his experiences he seemed inspired, always referring to his successive imprisonments and heavy chains with smiles and laughter."  He passed into the unseen world in February 1919.
Ibn-i-Ábhar dictated the following autobiographical sketch to his nephew, Fakhru'd-Dín.  It was translated by his nephew, Díyá'úd-Dín Múnádi, and Amat'u'lláh and was transcribed for the Star of the West, in Tihrán, Persia, September, 1922.
The story of Ibn-i-Ábhar
A command came for me to leave Ábhar and go to Zanján to teach the Azalís.  My uncle, 'Abdu'l-'Azím, and two other very prominent men, Mírzá 'Abdu'l-Baghí and Hájí Mullá Rahmatu'lláh went with me.  We rented a house to live in and during the day visited the Mullás, the Governor, and well-known, educated people.  Many proofs were given to convince the Azalís.  At night, while the others slept I would go to the house of a believer.  When the meeting was over a servant would cautiously open the door and I would return home.  During four months of strenuous work all but two of the Azalís became well informed and many intelligent and honourable people turned their faces toward the Cause.  The fire of the love of God flamed in the hearts of the friends and all received boundless favours from the Kingdom of Abhá.
Upon returning to Ábhar we learned that through the flaming of the Word the friends had been attracted to the Cause in an extraordinary degree; however, as a precaution, no one had dared to gather together the attracted ones.  This was done and they became very happy.
Shortly after this the enemies began to cry out:  "O religion!  O faith!  The Holy Laws are passing away!" and they persuaded Prince Rukni'd-Dawlih, brother of Násiri'd-Dín Sháh, who had been my friend, to arrest, imprison and put in chains some of the believers.
It is written in the Qur'án, "Verily the devils incite one another."  Mírzá Abú-Tálib, son of Mírzá 'Abu'l-Kázim, who during the early days of the Cause instigated the first persecution and bloodshed in Zanján now began writing to my cousin, Mírzá 'Abu'l-Fatú, entitled Imám-i-Jumíh, who was one of my bitterest enemies.
page 335
These two ridiculed me before the Governor, seeking to ruin me.  They stated, in a letter, that Ibn-i-Ábhar had been the cause of much disturbance and trouble among the people in Zanján.  This letter was spread among the fanatical Mullás.
The Governor was a friend of mine, and he treated the letter of 'Abú'l-Fatú lightly, saying:  "It was written through jealousy and a misunderstanding.  I have neither seen nor heard anything from Ibn-i-Ábhar which is hostile to religion."  This caused an uprising among the people who, suspicious of the Governor, were ready to murder some of the believers.
The Governor now became very much disturbed and ordered that the Tablets be brought from the houses of the believers:  if among them there was found anything written by Ibn-i-Ábhar the people would be allowed to appeal to the Sháh for his death sentence.
I had written many letters to two confirmed believers, Áqá Siyyid Ismá'íl and Áqá Rasúl.  These were found.  The Governor, because of his fear, repented his friendship (with Ábhar) and secured from the Sháh a sentence of martyrdom.  Mírzá Jalil Khán, chief of the gunners, with ten soldiers was commanded to take me to Zanján.
Suddenly, at evening-time, several soldiers appeared at the door and demanded an interview.  My brother, Mírzá 'Abu'l-'Atu'f, said:  "It is now late.  You had better wait until morning."  Then I came from an inner room and my nephew, Fakhru'd-Dín, called the officers.  About fifty soldiers had surrounded the house.  Some students who were there studying with Mírzá 'Abu'l-'Atu'f were put out of the house by the soldiers; whereupon they spread the news through the bazaars and soon the crowds came rushing from all sides to see what was happening.  The soldiers in order to scatter the crowd began firing and the noise of gunshots filled the air.  As soon as the crowd was scattered Jinábí Khán produced from his pocket a letter addressed to Ibn-i-Ábhar who was commanded thus:
"Your Excellency!  For the purpose of investigating certain matters your presence is necessary in this city.  Mírzá Jalil Khán, with ten soldiers has been commanded to bring you.  With Mírzá 'Abdu'l-'Azím and Kárbilá'í Mihdí Mílání you must start for Zanján, that the matter may be investigated in your very presence.  Kindly see to it that you do not fail to start; otherwise the affair may become serious."
After reading the letter I handed it to my brother, whereupon Mírzá Jalil Khán said to him:  "You had better go into the house.  We have nothing to do with you."  But when two of the soldiers produced a large chain and prepared to put it upon me my brother could not endure it but tried to prevent them.  Then the soldiers pushed him out of the room, saying:  "You have no right to interfere."
My brother returned, gave the soldiers fifty túmáns and obtained their promise not to chain me that night.  I now went into the inner apartment, and they placed a guard at the door, allowing only one servant to pass in and out.  In order to show their importance and to intimidate the family they made threats and frequently fired off their guns.
I take God to witness that during that night our house was like a house of mourning.  Nothing was heard but sighs and cries and most of the relatives, men and women, were excited, and crying all night for they were given no information as to the condition of the prisoners.
The fourth hour after sunset my cousin, Hájí Mírzá Hidáyat, brother of Imám-i-Jumíh took Mírzá Jalil Khán into a private room and told him that it would be to his earthly and spiritual advantage to torture this servant.
Mírzá Jalil Khán, understanding my cousin's hatred and jealousy said to me:  "Why are these cousins so opposed to you, seeking to destroy you?"
I answered:  "The uncles of His Holiness Muhammad were against him, and his cousins sought to martyr his descendants.  The citizens of Galilee were opposed to Christ.  In Moses' time his relatives arose and drove him out.  The family of Abraham caused his expulsion.  And was not Joseph cast into the pit?  By whom?-his wicked brethren."  Thus, through scriptural citations I finally led Mírzá Jalil Khán to the Ridván of the knowledge of the Manifestation and, until midnight, told him and three others about the Great Cause.
page 336
In the morning Imám-i-Jumíh summoned Mírzá Jalil Khán and made calumnious accusations against me and against the Revealer of the Cause.  He then tried to persuade him to torture (me) Ábhar.
"Tell him that you will bind his shoulders, chain him, put his feet in stocks and ride him on a bare-backed mule.  Undoubtedly, to escape such ignominy he will pay you a large sum of money.  After obtaining the money then act to the very limit of your power in order to secure your heavenly recompense, for these transgressors lead the people astray and the more scornfully they are treated the more the people will fear to follow them.  Then, how great will be your station in the sight of the Great Father Muhammad in the day of resurrection!  Proceed at once to Zanján, and make this matter seem very important before the Governor.  As soon as he arrives there let the Governor purify the province of Qamsar from his ignoble presence-(let him be killed.")
When Mírzá Jalil Khán compared the words of Ibn-i-Ábhar with those of Imám-i-Jumíh he said:  "Áqá, there is an immense difference between your statements and his.  Ibn-i-Ábhar admonished us until midnight.  He gave us the story of the prophets in detail exhorting us to live in peace with all the people of God.  He led us to the straight path of love, virtue, holiness and the Oneness of the peerless God.  He showed no sadness because of the calamities which had befallen him.  Alas for me! that I must bring about the murder of such a prisoner!"
He then arose, saying:  "If God wills, the enemy himself will cause good to triumph."
With smiling face he came and reported to me the whole interview, adding, "I thought all Bahá'ís were the enemies of God and of His prophet and I intended to torture and kill you.  But since last night, and especially, today, I have changed my mind and am anxious to gain a thorough knowledge of your purpose.  I am resolved to do nothing which may cause me to be ashamed in the presence of God and of His prophet."
Ibn-i-Ábhar answered:  "Verily, the Qur'án says:  'Those who obey God are those who have obeyed His prophet'."
My family wished to send a sum of money to the Governor to obtain my release but he had evidently come under the influence of Imám-i-Jumíh for he sent a strict order to Imám-i-Jumíh and Jalil Khán that he (Jalil Khán), must set out at once with the prisoner of the government.  What a terrible scene followed!
It was the fourth day of Muharram, the month of beating.  Shops were closed and groups of men had equipped themselves to torment the believers.  The soldiers joined in-some having taken bribes; others being followers of Imám-i-Jumíh; and others joining through fanaticism.  The women, hiding in the inner apartment were crying loudly.  A rabble of worthless people had gathered about the gate, and friends, also, had secretly drawn near.  In the evening Imám-i-Jumíh with his two brothers, Mírzá Hidáyat and Áqá Fatu'lláh, brought a company of soldiers and instructed them to mount the prisoner in the most ignominious fashion or they would be reported to the Governor and would themselves be humiliated.  They gave notice that if anyone rented him (the prisoner) a good horse the animal would be seized and that man and his family would be treated as scorpions.  Mírzá Jalál and the ten others did not dare to start with him.  A lean pony was brought.  Some of the onlookers were scornful; some were laughing; others amazed; and a few were weeping.  Many were cursing and reviling, while the sound of crying from the women and children in the inner room rent the heart.  The oppressed believers had taken refuge in a corner and dared not utter a word.  Imám-i-Jumíh surrounded by Mullás, theological students, merchants and princes was writing an accusation in an inner room.  He ordered this oppressed one to enter, which he did with the chain about his neck and one foot in a stock.  Immediately Imám-i-Jumíh said, with a bitter smile:  "Curse you, for an infidel!"
I answered him with a proverb:  "First prove the earth and then draw the map of it."
Upon hearing this quotation Imám-i-Jumíh said, angrily:  "Remove this dog from the room.  He accounts himself a prophet and reveals verses for us."
page 337
Jalil Khán seized the chain and dragged me from the room while Imám-i-Jumíh said:  "Did you hear what he claimed?"
One answered:  "He wanted to make us Bábís."  And they all began to curse.
My mother had turned her face toward the point (of prayer) repeating this prayer, which had been revealed for her in a Tablet:  "Praise be upon Thee, O Thou, the Beloved, the Knower, and thanks be unto Thee, O Thou, the Aim of the world!"
Her sisters, Táj Nassah and Hussní Ján, and her daughters, Fátimih and Oma Habíbih, sent a sum of money petitioning that the soldiers would permit me to visit my relatives, and her son 'Abu'l-Kázim, gave surety with his life.
At first they refused, but when the sum was increased they brought me bound hand and foot with chains into the inner apartment.  This sight caused the women to cry so loudly that the men who were in the inner apartment burst into tears.  When Imám-i-Jumíh heard this he said, angrily:  "Did you not hear how he despised us and exalted his own station?  Let him go at once so that we may be quit of his scorn."
All this time not a trace of emotion was to be seen in my mother's face.  She did not once look toward me nor did she cease to repeat the holy words.  The friends led me to her that she might see my face.  She said:  "O my dear!  You know how precious you are to me; but the most glorified One is the Blessed Perfection.  I dedicate you to be a sacrifice in his Cause.  Go!  Be steadfast!  Sacrifice yourself in the Cause of God and fear no one.  The Qur'án says:  'Do they think that those who are killed in the path of God are dead?  Nay, they are alive in the presence of their Lord and are supping with Him.'"  She did not glance my way nor did she embrace me in farewell but continued to thank God and to pray.
The relatives and the others cried out:  "O you cruel one!  God does not accept your prayers.  How hard-hearted you are to consent to the death of such a son!"
My brother then came and took me out of the room, handing me over to the soldiers who put my other foot into the stock and, mounting me on the miserable pony, started off.  Everyone was weeping, but Ábhar, turning to them all, believers and non-believers said:  "I bid farewell to you and ask you to forgive my failings and to beg for pardon for me at the Threshold of Oneness for it is most probable that I will not return from this journey."  One of his (Ábhar's) uncles, a bitter enemy, cried out:  "Go to hell so that you can not come back, O you, the branded one among your kindred.  I trust that you will be hanged!"
About two thousand people of all classes formed our escort.  Imám-i-Jumíh ordered the guards to take the most public route-which ran through the bazaars and passed by his house.  Here his relatives stood on the roofs to ridicule, hurl abusive language and throw stones.  The prisoner asked the guards to stop the pony so the crowd might satisfy their curiosity.  Then he cried aloud:  "O ye people!  This day upon which I am arrested upon the charge of being a Bábí is the fourth of Muharram.  You remember that it was upon this same day that in ancient times they beheaded the descendants of Muhammad and waved their heads on spears before the other captives, crying:  'You are heathen; you have left the religion of your fathers and have abandoned the laws of God.'  'Know, verily, that God will curse the nation that martyred them.'"
During this speech the people wept and wailed and continued so to do until we reached Musallá, one mile out of the city.  Mírzá Jalil Khán was so overcome that he dismounted from his horse and ordered two of the guards to break the stocks and release my feet.  Then he, himself, spoke to the people:
"O ye inhabitants of Ábhar!  You may rest assured that the cause of this man is just.  He is being oppressed as was my forefather, Imám Husayn.  Do not desert this family.  Compare the family of Imám-i-Jumíh with the family of Yazíd.  They tried to turn me against this family but, thank God, I was not deceived and have not mistreated his honour."
We tarried until sunset, the believers gradually becoming more tranquil, saying:  "He will have no more trouble along the way except for the heaviness of his chains."  And this was really the case
page 338
for, two miles out of Zanján, when everyone sat down to rest Mírzá Jalil Khán, retaining three of the guards who were friendly sent the other seven who continually opposed when religion was discussed, to their homes, telling them not to report to the government office but to change their clothes, and in the morning to come to his house when they would all take the criminal to the office of the government.  After the departure of the seven, those who remained began to talk happily about the Cause, chanting meanwhile prayers and Tablets.
The little party soon came to the house of Mírzá Jalil Khán who then called in some of the believers connected with the court that they might discuss the best method of presenting the matter to the government.  They now took off the chains which were about the neck of Ábhar.
Two hours later, in the midst of an earnest discussion, there came a loud and peremptory knocking at the door-evidently a messenger from the government; whereupon Mírzá Jalil Khán and the others hastily concealed themselves.  Two deputies and twenty farráshes entered and angrily demanded Mírzá Jalil Khán and the prisoner, Ábhar.  It was apparent that the seven guards had turned in evidence.
The government's messengers with the utmost roughness and disrespect chained the prisoner and dragged him to the government office.  Here the head servant was walking about in the hall, so intoxicated that he could scarcely speak.  He came up to me and asked, furiously:  "Where have you sent Jalil Khán?"
This oppressed one answered very slowly:  "I accompanied him to his own house and after that I have no information about him."
The head servant called the warden of the prison and said, sarcastically:  "Treat him well, because he is the very essence of the Bábís and has converted the servants of the government."
The warden took my 'abá (cloak) and emptied my pockets of a small sum of money.  Then he put me into a dungeon called in Zanján "Dáshburgh"-"stone tower", a hole dug in the ground and closed over with a stone as large as a millstone which could not be moved at all from below and only with great difficulty from above.  The prisoner had only room enough to crouch within.  On account of the carelessness of the guards the place was filled with fleas, white ants and lice.  One of the prisoners described how sometimes all three would clump together and form a mass the size of a bean.  Every day the great stone was taken from the opening for two hours to change the air.  Here this unfortunate one was imprisoned for four months and a few days.  The place was about ten yards square and there were other believers, also, confined there.  When I arrived they began weeping, as though mourning for their own dead children.
I smilingly asked:  "Why do you weep?  Be happy that you are suffering for the sake of God.  You are bound and fettered for the spreading of His Cause.  Soon your native citizens, your relatives and your grandchildren will boast because of your very existence and in the sight of men you will reach to the heights of dignity."
They answered:  "We are not weeping for ourselves.  We are accustomed to chains and stocks.  Our weeping is for your dear and precious life.  Until now you have been cherished in ease, and held in the highest respect and honour.  How can you exist in such a dark and malodorous hole?"
I answered from the Qur'án:  "I am submissive to His command, patient under the calamities of God and there is no one to be worshipped save Him."
"Consider how every prophet was a target for the enemies of his time, and no one of them failed to drink the poison-cup, draining it as though it were the sweet elixir of Paradise.  In the fire of Nimrod Abraham reached to a high station.  In like manner Jesus Christ took up his abode in the heaven of Nearness.  Muhammad and his holy descendants tore the veil of superstition from the eyes of their followers and went, straight and swift as an arrow, to their high station."
These explanations which were in reality utterances from the invisible so affected the guards and farráshes that they ceased to trouble me.  Like the others, they forgot me and listened to the teachings.
page 339
In order to learn how the farráshes were treating me the warden sent in a new farrásh.  This one also in that dark cell became captive to the Mount of God.  He stood like a statue, listening eagerly.  The warden, wondering why no sound reached him from the dungeon came, stealthily, near, and stood by the opening listening for the cruel treatment of the prisoners.  Hearing nothing he rushed in angrily and found that all the prisoners had gathered around this prisoner and were listening to the words of life.  He had a heavy club of almond wood in his hand and with it started beating the head jailer striking him and his assistants so severely that the club broke in two.  Then, with the remaining piece, he came toward me and began striking me, saying, "O you devil!  Can you not keep silent even here?  Do you want to lead astray the prison force?"
After many blows he called for a very heavy chain, in addition to the ordinary one already worn.  He handed this collar to me ordering me to put it around my neck.  This poor oppressed one had been so badly beaten that his senses were benumbed and instead of placing the collar around his neck he tried to draw it over his head, like a cap.  The intoxicated warden seeing this burst out laughing, and his anger passed away.  He ordered the other prisoners to be confined in a separate cell lest all should become Bahá'ís.  I was then chained to the other believers and my feet were put into the same stock.  I now began to chant from memory the whole of the following Tablet, called the Tablet of Praise:
"He is the Glory of the Most Glorious!
"His praise is purified above the knowledge of all beings.  It is exalted above the comprehension of the creatures.  These things are reserved for the King, the Precious, the Peerless, He who is forever purified above the remembrance of all others."


XIII:12, March 1923
page 339
An early Tablet to Persia
Translated by Shoghi Effendi
He is the All-Glorious!
O thou that art aglow with the Fire that burneth in the Sacred Tree!
At this morning hour, when the Light that shineth from the Abhá Kingdom is shedding its splendour upon the regions of the world and the sweet savours of the Lord wafted from the Realms of Holiness are diffusing their fragrance amongst the holy ones on earth, this yearning one is so stirred with the sweet remembrance of the loved ones of God and so aflame with the desire of their meeting that he finds no way to still his longings or to calm his restless soul.
A Voice is calling him from the Realm on High:  "O servant of the sacred Threshold of Bahá!  Bestir thyself and, with thy pen in thine hand, make mention of that loving friend of thine that seeketh restlessly the Way of his Beloved and who is so enamoured with Thee that a single drop from the Ocean of Thy loving-kindness is to him the Water of Everlasting Life."
By thy life, so precious to me, I swear that I can contain myself no more and this pen of mine can write no further nor can I guide and restrain any more my writing:  Ponder this in thy heart and peruse this letter by the power of thine heart and spirit.
O friend!  I know not what to say and write to thee.  Behold!  The Voice of God so resounds from the Kingdom of Bahá that the ear is well-nigh overpowered with its sound, and the Universe is so shaken by the ringing call of Bahá that it may soon disrupt and burst asunder!
I can write no more.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translation of one of the earliest Tablets of our Beloved revealed for one of the early pioneers of the Cause in Persia.


XIII:12, March 1923
page 341
The problem of unemployment
"It will not be possible in the future," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "for men to amass great fortunes by the labour of others.  The rich will willingly divide.  They will come to this gradually, naturally, by their own volition.  It will never be accomplished by war and bloodshed.  The ruling power or government cannot treat the rich unjustly.  To force them to divide their wealth would be unjust.  In the future, proportionately, about three quarters of the profits will go to the workmen and one quarter to the owner.  This condition will prevail in about one century.  It will certainly come to pass."-From Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 7.


XIII:12, March 1923
page 342
The coming spiritual renaissance
... Theologians are struggling over new heresies.  Division in all great religions is increasing.  Christians try to return to Christ, but what is the Christ teaching?  Fundamentalists interpret it one way; liberal ministers in a way which is quite different.  Some prominent men of science question all our faith.  Historical scholars throw ancient documents into doubt.  Great demonstrations are held in Moscow denying all religion, just as Bahá'u'lláh prophesied would happen, when he said that after the great war religion would for a time seem to disappear.
In a word, we need a new statement of the teachings of the Divine Christ, applied to new conditions with a new outpouring of spiritual power.  "The old teachings," says 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "are insufficient for today.  They cannot cure every disease and are not an ointment for every wound.  Those heavenly admonitions of old are greatly loved and profoundly acceptable but the intellectual aspirations of today have advanced and demand fuller explanations of the divine plan.  There is great need for universal enlightenment.  This need is supplied in Bahá'u'lláh's teachings which are the sum of all teachings.  Today he who acquaints himself with the precepts and exhortations of Bahá'u'lláh and reads the Tablets of Kalimát, Tajallíyát, Tarázát and Bishárát will know for a certainty that they are the essential food for humanity in this latter day as well as the means of joining this transitory life to the Eternal.
"There are seasons in the revelation from God, as in the natural year, and just as the Christ manifested the Spirit of God in the flesh and helped the earth in his time, now the message of Bahá'u'lláh is the medicine of which the world has much need.  Bahá'u'lláh has a larger message on a greater number of subjects than any other, just as this is an age more ready, because of the great spiritual advance made in the great kingdom of knowledge, to understand and benefit by his just commands."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Notes of Mrs Thornburg-Cropper of London.
"As to the significance of the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh, know that everything which belongs to the universal is divine and all that is divine is certainly for the universal good.  Therefore, a divine cause, for universal good, cannot be limited to the Orient nor to the Occident, because the flame of the sun of Truth illumines the East and the West and its heat is felt in the south as well as in the north; there is no difference between the two poles.  In the time of the manifestation of Christ the Romans and the Greeks thought that the Cause was especially for the Jews; they thought they had no need for it because they saw that, according to appearances, they possessed a perfect civilization and they thought that they did not need the instructions of Christ.  This false supposition caused many people to be deprived of its grace.
"Also know that the principles of Christianity and the commandments of Bahá'u'lláh are identical and that the roads are the same.  But every day there is progress.  There was a time when this divine institution was in an embryonic condition.  Then it became newly born, a child, an intelligent child.  Today it has reached maturity:  its capacities, its body are the same, but today, it is resplendent, with the greatest beauty and brilliancy."-From a Tablet to a friend in Paris.


XIII:12, March 1923
page 343
The Covenant of Peace
From two Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to German Friends, quoted in the Diary Letters of Shoghi Effendi,
7 and 8 October 1919.
"The underlying foundation upon which the Kingdom rests is love and this must be securely established among the friends and must be widely spread so that it may become the cause of the establishment of the oneness of mankind.  This love must be so intensified among the friends as to make of them true servants of one another expending their wealth and sacrificing their lives for one another and consecrating their being to the existence of other souls.  Then ye shall observe how people will flock and gather under the shade of the pavilion of the oneness of mankind."
"Praise be to God!  Thou hast given up thy material comfort, ... hast travelled to Lubeck and hast instituted an assembly.  From the bounties of God I hope that assembly may become a heavenly gathering, may promulgate the oneness of mankind so that the various peoples and different races may all associate with utmost harmony under the shade of the pavilion of the oneness of mankind, the hostile peoples of Europe may be fused into one, the continent of Europe may become one home, this horrible war may lead to utmost union, harmony and love among the different communities of Europe, the monument of estrangement may quake and the standard of affection and unity be unfurled."
__________
"You must rest assured," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Secretary of the New York Peace Society, concerning the work of its members, "and let there be no trace of doubt in your souls that God is your assister and helper.  The Heavenly confirmations will descend upon you more and more.  God will protect you and will give you new strength continually.  Your world-motives will conquer the world of men; all obstacles will disappear before your advance; no earthly power can resist the onrushing power of peace.  For
page 344
this power is assisted by the power of God and that which is divinely assisted must prevail.  Consider how the Cause of Christ was confirmed.  How many resisted it!  What mountains of obstacles were raised against it!  What hostile forces sought to destroy its foundations!  Yet the kings and emperors of the world could not resist its spread and establishment.  No power of earth can withstand the on-flow of the spirit of truth.  If earthly kings and kingdoms come in its way it will conquer, and they will be overthrown, always:  for your cause is truth itself, and truth is omnipotent.  If all nations arise to oppose they will be vanquished, and you will be victorious.  You are a servant of God, not a servant of this world.  A servant of God is he who gives some benefit to the world of man."


XIV:1, April 1923
page 3
Bahá'í education
Stanwood Cobb
Professor Stanwood Cobb, educator, and author of a number of books upon religion, mysticism and the Near East, taught for a number of years in Robert College, Constantinople, and in other institutions.  He is now the head of a remarkably progressive school at Chevy Chase, Maryland.
Every great civilization has brought with it a new type of education, expressing the needs and ideals of the age.  And as religion is one of the chief factors of civilization, every new religion has caused a profound change in the aims and practices of education.  In fact, in the early centuries of any religious dispensation, while faith and zeal are strong, education has been not only influenced but controlled by religion.  Such was the case in the early centuries of the Christian era, continuing even to the Renaissance.  Such was the case in the inception of Islám, and has remained so to the present day.  Even a new movement within an established religion-such as the rise of Protestantism, or of powerful sects such as the Methodists or Quakers-exerts its modifying influence upon all education brought within its sphere.
Therefore it is apparent even to the casual observer that the Bahá'í faith, when it should become established as a world-religion bringing with it a new world-civilization, could not fail to powerfully affect the ideals and processes of education.
Nor need such a partnership between education and religion be feared, especially since the substantiation of scientific truth is one of the principles of the Bahá'í religion.  It is true that scholasticism has been a detriment to education; but the cramping spirit of scholasticism is a symptom of decadence rather than of reality in religion.  For instance, Islám, now in its age of scholasticism, was at its beginning a powerful ally of the scientific investigation of truth; and its great universities of Cairo and Cordova became the inspiration and model of higher education in Europe.  True religion is an expansive, not a restrictive force; it is the essence of creation, not the spirit of limitation.  But the organization which grows up in the name of any religion reaches at last a stage of crystallization, then of paralysis.  The oppressive influence of the church at such an epoch, though exerted in the name of religion, is not due to real religion, but as 'Abdu'l-Bahá says, to the very opposite of religion.
The founders of the Bahá'í religion, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, have established definite principles to guide the educators of the future.  So that if we study carefully these principles, in com-
page 4
parison also with the general teachings of the Cause, we can form a very clear picture of what education will be like among the Bahá'ís of the future.
In the FIRST place, it will be universal.  Bahá'u'lláh has said that it is the duty of every parent to educate his children.  If he cannot do this then the state will take charge of the matter.  Americans may say, "Such is now the case in this country".  But they are mistaken.  In this country there are millions of illiterates, a large part of them of old American stock.  And as for Europe and Asia, we are aware of the crying need for education in that part of the world.  The need is no less great in South America, where the dominant white race is literate, but entirely negligent and antipathetic to the education of the subject races, Indians and Negroes.
When it is conceived that this law of Bahá'u'lláh concerns itself with the whole world, and with every race, nay with every individual, it will be seen how profoundly the complete execution of this law will affect mankind.  Illiteracy and ignorance will be entirely obliterated, and all of mankind, by receiving the privilege and aid of education, will for the first time in the history of our planet be thereby placed on a plane of equal opportunity for success in life-endeavours.  For the right education is the open door to the expression and utilization of one's native abilities.  And while but a privileged portion of the world are placed in this favourable position of advancement, the submerged nine-tenths are even before they are born condemned to be the toiling slaves of the few.  This is not justice.  And upon the pillars of justice, not of injustice, is the new edifice of civilization to be raised.
SECONDLY, education will be more practical.  Bahá'u'lláh said, "Let everyone be taught a trade or profession."  Culture is a gift that makes life more beautiful and intelligent, but skill at a trade or profession is the indispensable means of raising man from brutish servitude.  Unskilled labour will barely provide the funds for sustenance.
Whom among the readers of this article would wish for his own children the destiny of belonging to the vast ranks of the unskilled?  Then why should he wish it for other people's children?  There are those who selfishly fear that the consequence of the education and training of the masses will be to deprive the upper classes of their age-long exploitation of unskilled labour at low wages.  They fear for their own comforts.  But these fears are groundless.  As mankind becomes more intelligent and the supply of low-paid unskilled labour diminishes, new ways will be found of doing the same work in a more intelligent manner.  As, for example, the modern method of coaling a ship as compared with the Oriental method; or the abolition of stoking in oil-burning steamships; or the project of extracting heat from coal mines by converting the coal into gas and piping it from the mines.
For every diminution in the quantity of unskilled labour there will be, not a loss, but a proportionate gain for humanity.  And as for the workingman himself, who would compare the working conditions of crude labour with those of skilled labour; or the living conditions of the two as determined by their wages?
In one field of production, that of agriculture-by far the most important field of effort of the human race-it is apparent what gains are made, not only for the producer but also for the consumer, by applying intelligence and skill to labour.  In every other field of effort the gain will be as great.  And in the new dispensation the Adamic curse, "Thou shalt live by the sweat of thy brow", will be changed to, "He shall feed all His creatures."
In the Bahá'í scheme of education the cultural will not be neglected; but it will parallel the practical, and not hold precedence over it.
page 5
THIRDLY, much that has been deemed important in education will be dropped.  Bahá'u'lláh said, "Teach those things that pertain to human welfare, and not those things that begin in words and end in words."  This is a glorious but severe criterion.  The race must live.  It must live comfortably.  All men must enjoy comfort.
Education can no longer serve the intellectual predilections of the few.  It can no longer present itself as the willing Pegasus for any journey which the curious mind would make into the realms of thought.  No! education, like human labour, must serve useful ends.  It must teach those things that pertain to human welfare.  So may the race progress more quickly to its destined perfection.
As for those things that begin in words and end in words, they must be discarded.  Future educators will apply the criterion.  We can only hazard here the guess that much of philosophy will go; much of required mathematics; much of dialectic, of grammar, and of the study of dead languages.  The study of modern languages will become unnecessary when, as Bahá'u'lláh directed, the world shall choose a universal auxiliary language.
This pruning of the old tree of knowledge, now full of dead branches, will vivify the stock and cause it to produce new and beautiful fruits for the benefit of mankind.
And as for our school children-those of us who have tried the experiment of "teaching those things that pertain to human welfare" know how eagerly pupils of all ages devote themselves to the study of subjects pertaining to the progress of the race.  There will be no malingering in our schools when education is made vital and adapts its information to the growing needs and desires of the child.
FOURTHLY, education will be made a joyous process.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has said that schools must be happy places, and that children must not be overburdened with study.  Six hours a day, he said, of combined study and recitation is enough.  To go beyond that is needlessly to tire the child-mind.  And too much study before maturity, 'Abdu'l-Bahá says, blunts the intelligence and does irreparable harm to the developing brain.
Education will be adapted to the individuality of the child, and not try to form each child into a common pattern.  In this way children will be happy in their education, and the human race will benefit by the development of all the gifts that are born into it.  At present there is much suppression of native genius, both by our social and by our educational systems.  The future world will seek out talent wherever found, train it, and give it opportunity.
Bahá'ís, perhaps more than other people, see the hope of the world as lying in the children.  Easier by far it is for a child born into the Kingdom to become a perfect citizen of it, than for an adult who has been, so to speak, only naturalized into it.  And to perceiving eyes it would seem that marvellous children are being born into the world-more spiritual, more gifted, than the world has hitherto known.  Before such children we adults are reverent, respecting higher powers though in those of inferior age.
Therefore the Bahá'í teacher will be humble, sweet, companionable, and above all loving.  Not opinionated, austere, bigoted or jealous of mental powers superior to his own.  He will be supremely happy with children, for to him teaching will always be a voyage of discovery-the discovery of hidden talents, of dormant powers, of budding gifts, and of germinating flowers of the spirit.
He will be a gardener training his plants, cultivating choice seedlings, gently caring for all; but speechless before the beauty of the blossoms which his care evokes, worshipping that beauty as an apparition of the Divine Splendour behind and through the human veils.
The full power of development latent in the soul we have but little realized.  Not only is the human race capable of
page 6
an enormously greater progress than it has yet reached, but also every child is capable of keener perception, of deeper ratiocination,1 of greater initiative and creativeness, and of earlier maturity of character.
'Abdu'l-Bahá once mentioned a plan he had had for founding a model school at Haifa.  "I have carried in my mind for some time an educational system, but so far there have been no means for its realization.  If that system were once beaten into workable shape, in two years' time the children would have studied four languages.  At the age of ten they would study sciences; and at the age of twelve they would be graduated.  I wanted to establish such a trial school of eighty-one pupils, all six years of age, the children to be brought from Persia and Ishqábád, the teachers to be engaged and transported from America.  But a number of unforeseen difficulties have prevented me."
"At the age of ten they would study sciences."  This is a scientific age.  The eagerness with which children drink in the truths of science is indicative of what may be accomplished along this line.  The present year I began general science with the sixth grade of my school, using a high school text book but accommodating it by means of my own explanations to the knowledge and capacity of these eleven and twelve year old children.  It is their favourite subject.  They beg to have it oftener.
At the time of the violent earthquakes and tidal waves in Chile, early in November, we made a study of earthquakes.  One day we made an excursion to Georgetown University where Father Tondorf, one of the greatest seismological experts in the world, was so kind as to show us his seismographs; and explain to us how, by means of the records these instruments make, he could calculate with remarkable precision the location of earthquakes thousands of miles away.  When we got back to the school we discussed again the causes and locations of earthquakes, and the value to mankind of careful observation and recording of these disturbances.
Here was a subject which, in the words of Bahá'u'lláh "pertained to human welfare"; and the eagerness, receptivity, and comprehension of the children were remarkable.  In vivid contrast to this spirit of earnest endeavour was the behaviour of the crowd of high school boys who got on the same car with us coming home from our trip to the university.  They were tossing their bundles of books to each other, throwing them about as playthings or as bated objects.  "Which subject do you like least?" I asked of the boy next to me.  "Oh, I hate 'em all," he cheerfully remarked.  By the titles of their books, "Algebra", "Latin", "Rhetoric", etc., I should say that their curriculum consisted largely of subjects that began in words, and ended in words.  What a supreme and lordly indifference to their studies was manifested by these school boys!
This indifference is the educational tragedy of the day.  Bahá'í education will not be so characterized.  With the right curriculum, inspiring teachers, and the proper concept of their duty to themselves, their parents, and to the world, the Bahá'í children of the future will develop marvellously and will at adolescence surpass in seriousness and maturity of powers the average college freshman of today.
It is a pity that circumstances did not permit 'Abdu'l-Bahá to demonstrate by means of a model school what true Bahá'í education should be.  But from his own words and from those of Bahá'u'lláh, Bahá'í educators will construct a more ideal system of child training than that now prevalent.
LASTLY, Bahá'í education will concern itself not only with the moral but with the spiritual development of the child.  And this influence will make itself felt even through the university.  At present our educational system is quite Godless.  Owing to the nature of our
page 7
government and the presence in our body politic of groups of opposing religions, public education has renounced all authority over the spiritual life of the child.
This is a condition which if allowed to continue would lead to the spiritual bankruptcy of the race.  Already we are near that point.  Young parents of the present day, themselves trained in an irreligious educational system, have nothing of religion to give their children; and they send the children again to public schools where the teachers are forbidden to teach religion.  Once a week, for an hour, the spiritual needs of the child are cared for by the Sunday school teacher.  One hundred and sixty-seven hours a week devoted to secular thought, attention, training, activity, and sleep-and one hour a week devoted to the spiritual part of the child!  Can earnest people view this ratio with indifference?
Character training is attempted in our schools.  But character must be based on a spiritual foundation.  'Abdu'l-Bahá has shown how lacking in the necessary motives for right conduct are those who do not believe in the soul, in God, or in the future life.  It is ridiculous to attempt character training apart from the fundamental truths of religion.
What is the solution?  In a democracy of mixed and hostile religions, only a new harmonizing and universal religion can heal the breach and make spiritual training a welcome part of public education.
In the Bahá'í world of the future the mind, the soul, and the spirit will be trained together.  And the higher up one goes in education, the more spiritual will one become, and not the more irreligious-as is so often the case today.
In closing I cannot do better than to cite the wonderful words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá in regard to the kind of education which our colleges and universities should give.  If this ideal, held up by 'Abdu'l-Bahá for the inspiration of future educators, ever becomes realized, there will be little need of prisons and reformatories in a world so educated.
"The Universities and Colleges of the world must hold fast to three cardinal principles.  First, whole-hearted service to the cause of education, the unfolding of the mysteries of nature, the extension of the boundaries of pure science, the elimination of the causes of ignorance and social evils, a standard universal system of instruction, and the diffusion of the lights of knowledge and reality.
"Second, service to the cause of the students, inspiring them with the sublimest ideals of ethical refinement, teaching them altruism, inculcating in their lives the beauty of holiness and the excellency of virtues and animating them with the excellences and perfections of the religion of God.
"Third, service to the oneness of the world of humanity; so that each student may consciously realize that he is a brother to all mankind, irrespective of religion or race.  The thoughts of universal peace must be instilled in the hearts of all scholars.  The mothers in the homes, the teachers in the school, the professors in the colleges, the presidents in the universities must teach these ideals to the young from the cradle to the years of manhood."


XIV:1, April 1923
page 8
Studies in immortality
Part I
The relation of mind, soul, spirit
Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá have in this Latter Day of world progress broken the seals and unstopped the vials of knowledge for us on subjects which have long puzzled an increasing number of eager-minded investigators of spiritual truth, viz:  is man of the world of nature or is he a citizen of the Kingdom of Light or does he dwell in both realms?  What is the nature of his spirit and its immortality-its life in the unseen Kingdom?
The following compilation from the words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá is concerned with a question which lies on the borderland of psychology and philosophy-the relation of body, soul, mind, spirit.  It will be followed by a compilation to be published next month on the new revelation of immortal life.
"As to thy question regarding the soul," wrote Bahá'u'lláh from his prison in 'Akká, to Ra'ís, then minister of the Sultán of Turkey, "know that people have written many and varied articles regarding it and have had many different opinions concerning it.  (They speak of) a heavenly soul, a mighty soul, a divine soul, a godly soul, a holy soul, a tranquil soul, a contented soul, and to all these, special definitions and explanations are given by each party.
"As to the soul (spirit) which is purposed, verily, it is sent forth by the Word of God and it is that which when kindled by the fire of the love of its Lord will not be quenched by the waters of the rain nor by the seas of the world.  It is indeed kindled by that fire which is burning in the human Lote-Tree, uttering, 'Verily, there is no God but Me', and he who hears its voice is one of those who are successful.
"Upon leaving the body God will send it forth according to the best form and will cause it to enter into a high heaven.  Verily, thy Lord is powerful over all things.
"Know, also, that the life of man is from the Spirit and to turn is indeed from the soul.  Reflect upon that which we explained unto thee in order that thou mayest know the Soul of God who came from the dawning place of grace with manifest authority.
"Know, also, that the soul hath two wings.  If it flieth in the air of the love and will of God it will be attributed to the Merciful; but if it flieth in the atmosphere of desire it will be attributed to Satan-may God protect us and you against it, O assembly of knowers!  And if it is kindled by the fire of the love of God it will be a tranquil and pleasing soul; but if it be kindled by desire it is a passionate soul.  Thus have we given unto thee full details that thou mayest be of those who reflect.
"O Supreme Pen, mention to him who hath turned to his Lord, Abhá, that which will make him independent of the world.  Say, that spirit, mind, soul, hearing and sight are one, but differ through differing causes.  In the case of man, for instance, ye see that by which man understands, moves, speaks, hears and sees:  all of these are through the power of his God in him, but they each one are different, according to the difference of their cause.  Verily, this is indeed the truth.
"For example, if all these faculties are turned to that which causes hearing, then hearing and its results become manifest, and if they are turned to that which causes sight another activity and another result will appear; if turned to the brain, head, etc., the manifestations of mind and soul will appear.  Think of this that thou mayest reach the desired goal and find thyself independent of that which is mentioned on the part
page 9
of the people and be of those who are assured.  Verily, thy Lord is powerful in that which He wisheth."-From the Súriy-i-Ra'ís Chieftain).
__________
"The soul," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "is a link between body and spirit.  It receives bounties and virtues from the spirit and gives them to the body just as the outer senses carry that which they receive from the outer world to the inner senses, in order that (these impressions) may be deposited in the memory and, through his various powers, may be utilized by man."
"There is a human and a divine spirit, the latter arising through knowledge of and belief in God.  The human spirit is superior to the body and struggles with it for control of the soul:  when it succeeds the soul becomes heavenly; when the body obtains control the soul becomes degraded."
"Spirit is the highest and supreme development of the soul.  Soul is the material or outer self, the mind.  Mind is the action of the soul's powers.  The body is the physical covering or medium in which mind acts and functions.  At death everything but spirit is destroyed and becomes extinct."
"Moral life consists in the government of oneself.  Immortality is the government of a human soul by the divine will."
"As to _____, whom thou hast mentioned, it behoveth him to seek only the divine bounties and those subjects which lead to a real knowledge of the Invisible, through the mediation of the Holy Spirit.  Then he will see through his innate perception the reality of the triune powers in man, for, verily, the sign of these triune powers which exist in mankind is spirit, mind and soul.  Spirit is the power of life; mind is the power which apprehendeth the reality of things, and soul is the intermediary between the Supreme Concourse and the lower concourse.  It (the soul) hath two phases-the higher aspireth to the kingdom of Bahá and the lights of the mind shine forth from that horizon upon its higher sphere.  The other side inclineth to the lower concourse of the material world, and its lowest phase is enveloped in the darkness of ignorance.  But when light is poured upon this phase and if the soul is capable of receiving it, then 'truth hath come and falsehood vanisheth, for falsehood is of short duration.'  Otherwise, darkness will surround it from all directions and it will be deprived of association with the Supreme Concourse and will remain in the lowest depths."-Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Vol. III, p. 611.
The two powers of man
"Spirit is universal.  Man is created spirit in a potential degree.  Growth is from a mental into a spiritual station, somewhat like the development from soldier to commander.  God, himself, cannot compel the soul to become spiritual; the exercise of a free human will is necessary.  We can point the way and furnish the example.-Ten Days in the Light of Acca, pp. 3-4.
__________
"I desire each one of you to become so great that each may guide a country.  The friends must now endeavour to attain to such a station as to teach the people of America.  Divine qualities are unlimited.  For this reason you must not be satisfied with one quality but must try to gain all.  Each of you must improve himself that he may attain to nothing short of the best.  When one stops (advancing) he descends.  A bird when it is flying, soars; but as soon as it stops flying it falls.  While man is directed upward he develops.  As soon as he stops he descends.  Therefore I wish the beloved of God always to ascend and to develop.
"There exist in man two powers.  One power uplifts him-this is divine attraction which causes man's elevation.  In all the grades of existence he will develop through this power which belongs to the spirit.  The other power causes man to descend; this is the animal nature.  The first attracts man to
page 10
the Kingdom; the second brings him down to the created world.  Now we must consider which of these will gain in strength.  If the heavenly power wins, man will become heavenly, enlightened, merciful.  But if the worldly power wins he will be dark, satanic and like the animal.  Therefore he must advance continually.  As long as the heavenly power is dominant man will ascend."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Miss Juliet Thompson.
Degrees of existence
"There are two kinds of life.  There is that existence which is palpable to our touch but does not grow or possess sensation-the mineral kingdom.  Then there is the higher stage of existence, plant life, which grows but cannot feel.  Above this is the animal kingdom which is palpable to touch and has the power of growth and feeling but cannot attain to the station of man which is the highest of all.  That which is lower cannot perceive the higher.  The mineral cannot understand or feel the plant; plants cannot understand or perceive the animals; and animals cannot comprehend man.
"Now these degrees all belong to one kingdom, are all composed of matter.  As it is impossible for these different kingdoms belonging to the same world to understand one another so is it impossible for man to understand the things of the future life.  For as the difference between these grades or conditions so is the difference between man and the spiritual kingdom.  It is impossible for man to perceive or understand it because he has no power with which to perceive it.  As a child in the matrix of its mother cannot understand the world outside so is the human conception on this earth.  We can form no conception or idea of the heavenly Kingdom because we have no sense with which to perceive it.
"As it is not yet apparent while the child is in the matrix of its mother what its condition will be-whether or not it will have all the gifts of God, whether or not it will be perfect in all its members, whether it will be blind or deaf or dumb, but afterwards, when it enters the world it becomes clearly apparent if it be defective or not-so is it with the soul in its present state.  Its perfections or its defects are not understood until it enters the heavenly Kingdom.  Then they are clearly seen and then the soul understands whether or not it is lacking in the gifts of God.
"All the time, too, that the child is in the matrix of its mother it receives all its life and nourishment from (a source) outside of itself.  If it were cut off from that life it would die.  So it is with the soul here.  If it is cut off from its spiritual food it dies.
"As a child in the matrix does not yet know the use of its members-what its eyes are for, its nose, ears or tongue-so also is it with the soul on earth.  It cannot understand here the uses and powers of its spiritual gifts.  But as soon as it enters the eternal Kingdom these will become apparent."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Prayers, instructions, etc., p. 46.
The new birth
"The sacred books of all nations speak of the possibility of the new birth of man.  What does this mean?
"A child in the matrix of its mother is in utter darkness.  When it is born into the world it comes into the light.  While in the matrix it cannot understand the uses of its faculties; but when it comes into the phenomenal world then the uses of hearing, speech, sight, etc., are understood.  So when we leave here and go into the Kingdom of the Unseen we will know the uses of the bounties of God given to us in this world.  Here we are prepared, and given faculties which are for use in that world.  The new birth is realized in this world when we become characterized with the characteristics of God, when His name and attributes become our name and attributes."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Notes taken at Acca about 1900.
page 11
"Spirit in the human world is the discoverer of the realities of existence.  All the inventions, all the sciences, all the hidden mysteries are brought to light through the activity of this spirit on the plane of life.  While living in the Orient it organizes affairs in the Occident; while living on the earth it discovers the heavenly constellations.  These examples ought to show you that the spirit of life is omnipotent, especially when it establishes communication with God and becomes the recipient of the eternal light; then it transforms itself into a ray of the effulgence of the sun of reality."
"By the power of the Holy Spirit working through his soul man is able to perceive the divine reality of things.  All great works of art and science are witness to this power of the Spirit.
"The same Spirit gives eternal life.  Those, alone, who are baptized by the Divine Spirit will be enabled to bring all peoples into the bond of unity.  It is by the power of the Spirit that the Eastern world of spiritual thought can intermingle with the Western realm of action, so that the world of matter may become divine."
__________
"Bodily matters are not important.  The physical suffering of Christ passed away, but his spirit was everlasting.  These bodily sufferings come and pass away, but the spirit is eternal.  The body is not important.  The spirit is important.  The shell is not so important, but the pearl inside the shell is of great importance.  The glass or chimney is not so important, but the light itself is very important.  There is no importance in outer words, but the importance is in the significances.  This cup is of no importance, but the water herein is important.  There is no importance in the house, but there is in the one who lives in it.  Likewise, the physical body is not so important, but the spiritual body is of great importance.
"Human-kind have come to the world in innumerable numbers, and passed away; their physical bodies and that which belonged to them passed away with them.  Their health and disease both passed away.  Their rest and hardship both vanished.  Their wealth and poverty ended.  Their honour and misery terminated.  But the reality of man is immortal.  The spirit of man is everlasting.  It is the spirit to which importance is to be attached.  The difference (between spirit and body) is this, that one will enter the realm of enlightenment whereas the other will fall into the world of darkness."-From Notes of Mrs I. D. Brittingham, Acca, October, 1909.
__________
"Be it known that to know the reality or essence of the soul of man is impossible, for in order to know a thing one must comprehend it, and since a thing cannot comprehend itself to know oneself in substance or essence is impossible. ...  This much can be stated, that the reality of man is a pure and unknown essence constituting a depository emanating from the light of the Ancient Entity, God.  This essence or soul of man because of its innate purity and its connection with the unseen Ancient Entity is old as regards time but new as regards individuality.  This connection is similar to that of the rays to the sun-the effect to the primal cause. ...
"Since the pure essence, whose identity is unknown, possesses the virtues of the worlds of matter and of the Kingdom it has two sides:  first, the material and physical; second, the mental and spiritual, which are attributes not found as qualities of matter.  It is the same reality which is given different names, according to the different conditions wherein it is manifested.  Because of its relation to matter and the phenomenal world when it governs the physical functions of the body it is called the human soul; when it manifests itself as the thinker, the comprehender, it is called the mind.  And when it soars into the atmosphere of God and travels in the spiritual world it becomes designated as spirit.
page 12
"There are two sides to man.  One is divine, the other worldly; one is luminous, the other dark; one is angelic, the other diabolic.  Man is like the animals in all sensuous conditions for all animal characteristics exist in him.  Divine and satanic qualities are both contained in man-knowledge and ignorance, guidance and error, truth and falsehood, generosity and avarice, valour and timidity, inclination toward God and tendency toward Satan, chastity and purity, corruption and wickedness, economy and avidity, good and evil are all contained in man.
"If the angelic side becomes more powerful and the Divine Power and Brightness surround man then the second birth takes place and eternal life is attained at this point."-From an address by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, published in The International Psychic Gazette, July, 1914.
Note:  The foregoing quotations are taken from a compilation on Immortality by Mrs Mary M. Rabb.  Some of the very illuminating references given on soul, mind, spirit are as follows:  Daily Lessons, pp. 8 and 36; Ten Days in the Light of Acca, p. 3-4; Prayers, Tablets, Instructions and Miscellany, p. 47-48; Table Talks with 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 6; Star of the West, VII:19, p. 189; Star of the West, IV:1, p. 37.  We suggest also:  Some Answered Questions, pp. 163, 243; Divine Philosophy, Ch. III; Jinábí Fádil's Addresses in Seattle, Series I, p. 51.

XIV:1, April 1923
page 12
How the message came to Najaf
Jináb-i-Fadl
An autobiographical story
Travelling in the Orient is fraught with many difficulties and inconveniences which you do not encounter in the West.  We have no convenient methods of transportation.  Some of the Eastern countries lack railroads.  Consequently one must travel on camels, mules and other animals.  One of the journeys which I undertook, in order to spread the fragrances of the rose garden of love and amity, was a trip to Najaf and Karbilá, two of the most important religious centres in the Muslim world.  The city of Najaf is near Baghdád in Mesopotamia.  Though small, yet, as it is the chief community of the Shí'ihs, it has extraordinary importance for the Muslim world.  It is built in the middle of a sandy desert around which is nothing but wilderness-no trees, no foliage, no green or verdant pastures, nothing but wilderness.  Far off on the horizon one will find, coming down the side of a hill, a small stream which has branched off from the Euphrates.  Najaf contains the shrine, with its gilded dome, of one of the first Imáms of Islám.  It holds also the religious seminary of the Islamic world all of whose students carry on their theological studies in that centre.  Therefore the heads and leaders of the Shí'ih school live in that small yet important centre.
In 1909 a very detailed and wonderful Tablet was sent by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Persia.  In this Tablet 'Abdu'l-Bahá commands me to go to Arabia and convey the message of this Cause to the Divines of the Muslim world.
Upon receiving the Tablet and command I started on this eventful trip.  From Tihrán to Najaf, in every city that I entered I raised the call of the Kingdom.  Meetings were held and the people were summoned to this Cause.  On the way I stopped a few days in the
Page 13
city of Káshán where there are many Bahá'ís.  They insisted that I stay with them longer, but, as I told them, 'Abdu'l-Bahá had commanded me to go immediately to the city of Najaf:  so they were satisfied.  I wrote a letter to the Spiritual Assembly in Tihrán laying the matter before them.  The Spiritual Assembly wrote back:  "Inasmuch as you have received a direct command from 'Abdu'l-Bahá to go and fulfil this mission, it is best that you start as soon as possible."
Travelling in the Orient is slow and it was a long time before I reached my destination.  As a result (of this delay) the news of the purport of my journey to Najaf reached the 'Ulamás long before my arrival.  They had been telegraphed that such a person is on his way to teach to you this important Cause.
The mind of a Westerner cannot comprehend the animosity displayed by the people of the Orient for this brilliant Cause.  The leaders of the Islamic religion, from the time of the appearance of the Báb in 1814, have gathered their forces together to eradicate the tree of this Cause.  Therefore, before I arrived, they laid their plans so that as soon as I entered the city they might take me, throw me into prison, and do with me as they pleased.  They even stationed a number of spies along the way in order that every stage of my journey might be reported to them.  About a hundred miles out of Najaf, lo and behold, an unknown person appeared on the scene, expressing the warmest desire to accompany me and assist me on my way; later it was discovered that he was one of the spies.
After meeting many important persons and speaking in many cities and at many meetings I arrived in the city of Najaf.  As I intended to remain there for some time in order to associate in friendly fashion with these leaders of religion I went about, for three days, hunting a house and other necessities for living.  During these three days I met many of my former students, in the University of the Shí'ihs, and they recognized me, and came to see me; and so the number of my friends day by day increased.  I spoke with each one of them about the message of the Cause.
The third day, upon leaving my dwelling house I went to the large assembly hall of the thinkers and scholars.  No sooner did I enter the hall than I saw how filled with anger were their faces.  They looked at me as a wolf would look upon a sheep.  A few of them told me that a large number of the 'Ulamás were anxious to meet me at my own home, therefore it would be better for me to meet them there, and that I should return home, for they were on their way.  "We were not informed," they said "of the arrival of your honour, else we would have called upon you sooner.  It was your duty to have informed us."
When I reached the gate of my house I found these 'Ulamás, whose number continued to increase.  I took them into my reception room and began to talk to them of the spiritual principles of the Cause.  I was completely ignorant of their plans to persecute me, nay, they had deeper plans-to attack the Cause.  It was at the time when the governments of Persia and Turkey after much struggling had obtained their freedom, and had established constitutional forms of government.  One of the fundamental tenets of a constitution is religious freedom.  The Turkish government had nominally granted this; consequently the 'Ulamás could not persecute me in the name of religion.  The Shí'ih and the Sunní Universities convened meetings and invented certain plans by which they might persecute me, not in the name of religion but in the name of politics.  We were entirely misinformed as to their activities.
When I finished my talk with these men one of them rose, saying:  "We have come, on behalf of the 'Ulamás, to investigate, and to find out what you have."  Then they began searching my few possessions.
I said:  "I have not many things; but here they are.  Come and look at them."
Page 14
We had nothing whatever save Bahá'í books and literature.  They seized a number of Bahá'í books written by Bahá'u'lláh also, other spiritual literature belonging to this Cause, with many Tablets and letters; with these they left the house and went to their leaders.  Thinking that we might perhaps escape they left a number of their men to act as guards about the house.
Half an hour later a large crowd came rushing to the house; with them was a representative of the government of Persia, the Consul.  It was an unruly mob and in their faces one could see the signs of hatred and animosity, while from their lips there issued all manner of unseemly words.  The Persian representative did not let them go beyond the world of words; as soon as they began to attack me and do me harm he interfered.  So they took me and all my baggage and carried me to the house of the Persian representative.  The rest of our property was pillaged by these people and from the house of the Persian representative I was taken to prison and fetters were put upon my feet.  In that narrow and gloomy cell I began to commune with and pray to the Glory of Glories.  I had for companion another Bahá'í.  I was not alone.  We said, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has ordered us to come here and teach the 'Ulamás of the Islamic world, but now that we have been thrown into prison and are in all this difficulty how can we accomplish our purpose?  We did not take into account the fact that this very imprisonment would bring the name of the Cause to the attention of thousands and thousands of people.  This had occurred by morning for, lo, but a few hours had passed before we be held a seething mob attacking the prison.  They rushed into our cell, unlocked the fetters from my feet and carried me, almost on their shoulders, to the great hall of the leaders of Islám.
Upon entering this hall I saw that the elite of the Islamic theological world were present.  'Abdu'l-Bahá had mentioned the names of some of them, and they and all the rest were seated around this hall.  The Tablets and books which had been seized in the morning were distributed among this large group of theologians and every one of them, it seemed to me, had a few sheets in his hands.
A volley of questions was now fired at me; and a volley of answers was returned.  You probably all know that His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh lived for twelve years in Baghdád.  The city of Najaf is very near to Baghdád and the people of that province are familiar with the grandeur and majesty of Bahá'u'lláh whose wisdom no one can deny.  That fact which seems as anathema to the theologians and clergy of the Muslim world is that Bahá'u'lláh has changed the laws of Islám.  First, the Muslim clergy believe in the uncleanness of all religions and nations other than their own.  Bahá'u'lláh addresses all humanity, saying:  "Ye are all the leaves of one tree and the fruits of one branch."  In my answer to them I made it quite clear that the universality of the religion of God was not something very unusual; they would find the same principle in their own Qur'án-and I began quoting verses from their own bible.  The session lasted four hours.  When they became weary they sent me back to my cell, placed the irons about my feet, and everything became quiet.
They arranged a still larger meeting for the next day and when they were all ready with their questions they came for me again, to take off the fetters and present me to their august body.  For seven days these wondrous meetings continued and every day an inquiring, interested and curious crowd assembled and listened to the proofs concerning the message of the Kingdom.  Many of them accepted the Cause.  Others derided and repudiated it.  During those seven days the only time that my feet were free to move about was when we had these meetings.
Among the Muslims there are many extraordinary tales about the Bahá'ís-one of which is that they are so powerful that when in jail even they
Page 15
grow wings with which whenever they choose they fly out of the jail and enjoy the fresh and bracing outside air.  As a matter of fact, the Bahá'ís, often imprisoned, would through their wonderful lives convert their jailer, and he would give them liberty to leave the jail when ever they wished.
This time the jailer did not listen to the call of the Kingdom and every day increased the size of the fetters fearing that I might fly out of the prison.  The seventh day I saw through an opening a number of people cutting wood in the court.  They were talking about me, but I could not understand all they said.  When they came to the jail and took me out I realized that they had decided to put wooden stocks upon my hands and send me out of the town.  They had cut out two stocks making a hole for the two hands preparatory to putting my hands into the stocks and carrying me away.  The mayor of the city declared a holiday so that everyone could come out and see us in our gala array-and we were made very happy by this for we heard from the lips of the people the words and teachings of Bahá'u'lláh which they had memorized during the last few days while passing the literature from hand to hand.
They exiled us from Najaf to Baghdád, the Turkish guards accompanying us.  Between Najaf and Baghdád there is a city called Karbilá.  When we arrived there the guards, in order to rest and refresh themselves, put me in prison.  In the prison I found a number of important Arabian prisoners, and as their hearts were kind and tender I began to speak with them.  Immediately they accepted the Cause.  They were so affected by what had occurred during the past few days that upon hearing the story they commenced to weep.  In prison I wrote a letter to the Governor of Karbilá, urging him to grant me permission to see him.  This Governor was a very liberal minded man and when we had the opportunity to talk with him about the Cause he felt the spirit and was transformed.  He told me that although he was powerless to do anything for me in Karbilá-he would endeavour to obtain my freedom in Baghdád.  He told me that although the Muslim clergy could not persecute him on account of religion yet they had charged him with certain political schemes, saying that he upheld Sultán 'Abdu'l-Hamíd, the former despotic ruler of Turkey.
It took us four days to cover the distance from Karbilá to Baghdád and during that time I rode upon a donkey with my hands in the stocks.  It was summertime and the heat was well-nigh unbearable.  The donkey became so tired that often he would walk no longer, then, becoming unruly, he would throw me off.  My hands were fettered and I knew not how to manage.  The unfriendly muleteer whenever I fell from the donkey would come and kick me, saying:  "O, you ignorant man, why do you not get up and ride your donkey.  As a matter of fact this happened sixteen or seventeen times-that I fell from the donkey and they had to come and put me again upon its back.  The confirmation and assistance of the Centre of the Covenant were so great that whenever we reached a town and rested for a day or night we were strengthened to teach one or two souls.  For three days I was in Baghdád.  In that jail I was permitted to reach many souls.  Later on, the enemies planned to take us from there to Persia where there were many wild tribes, ready to attack and kill us on the instant.  The 'Ulamás of Najaf had already written to the chiefs of these tribes that inasmuch as they were unable to kill "this man" under the law upon his arrival at the frontier of Persia they must at once attack and kill him.  But they were utterly ignorant of the power of the Covenant.  The Consul who was commissioned to take me to the frontier of Persia had the love of this Cause in his heart, and the Turkish governor did not fetter my hands at the time of my departure from the city.  No one knew how or why this was forgotten
Page 16
for it is a very important custom practiced upon all prisoners.
When we reached the frontier the guards turned us over to the Persian authorities who, with their men, instead of delivering us into the hands of the wild tribes, treated us with such loving kindness that we were amazed.  As we continued our journey many lawless tribes and fanatical individuals lay in wait all along the way, ready to kill us-but they could not because these men were with us.  Suddenly we came upon a large body of well armed Kurds.  They came up to the carriage driver and asked:  "Do you know of two Bahá'ís who were captured in Karbilá and Najaf and are being brought back to Persia?"
The carriage driver, who had now be come attached to me and to my companion, answered:  "No, I have not heard of them.  Why do you want to know about these two men?"
"We want to capture them and, according to the message from the authorities, do away with them," replied the Kurds.
They had even gone so far as to publish circulars which they spread through out the city.
Through all these difficulties God protected us, until we reached the city of Tihrán.  The government authorities in that city in order to quell the uprising decided that the best way to manage the affair would be to keep the two men in custody for some time, until the excitement had vanished.
I remained in Tihrán for a month associating with no one; then I started on my journey to the Holy Land to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  When I reached the presence of the Master he related all the details of this journey of mine, so that I marvelled, for it was as though he had been there and witnessed every detail of those things which had happened on this journey.  The plans, the strategy, the scheming of those 'Ulamás and the events which took place 'Abdu'l-Bahá described.  He said:  "My purpose in sending you to that Ulamic centre was to spread the Cause and scatter the literature of the teachings and the books of this Movement.  The result is now achieved and a great number of men and women are informed of this Movement."
Later on a number of these 'Ulamás who had become Bahá'ís came to visit 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and now they are engaged in that very city in spreading the message.
These people thought that they were able to extinguish the lamp of God, but God, through His own invisible and mighty power scattered the rays of the sun of reality to the four corners of the earth.
This is but one of the incidents of my travels.


XIV:1, April 1923
page 18
The wondrous light of the Cause
Selections from 'Abdu'l-Bahá's "soul-stirring Words to his loved ones in Persia, revealed some twenty-five years ago, and during the darkest days of his incarceration in the prison-city of 'Akká."  Selected and translated by Shoghi Effendi and sent by him to the National Spiritual Assembly of America, March 1923.
[Selections available elsewhere have been omitted.]
O true servant of God!
The cycle in which thou hast been called to life is truly the cycle of the Ancient Beauty, and the age, the age of the Most Great Name.  Hallowed and sanctified be the Lord that hath graciously favoured these poor servants of His to gaze upon such wondrous Light!  Ours then to render Him thanks, in the daytime and in the night season, for His manifold blessings; to be self-sacrificing in the path of Bahá'u'lláh (may my life be offered up as a sacrifice at His threshold!); to strive for the spread of His Word; to endeavour to manifest His Signs, raise His Edifice, set forth His Proof, recount His Praise, and be lowly and humble, suppliant and submissive before Him; haply His Grace may aid us to prove our gratitude for His bestowals.  Wherefore, unloose thy tongue to deliver the Divine Message and diffuse His fragrance.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
O friend!
... A celestial fire hath been kindled in the very heart of mankind, and burns brightly in the Sacred Tree.  Ere long its glowing flame shall set ablaze the souls of men and its light illumine the regions of the world.
The signs of God have appeared, the mysteries of the Kingdom are revealed, and the secret of all that hath been recorded in the Holy Writ been made manifest.  Wherefore doubt and hesitate? ...
Now that that Ravisher of hearts has spurred on His charger into the arena of Truth, and all that hath been hidden is revealed, why be still and silent, heedless and forgetful?  The Divine Candle hath thrown its beams upon the world, whilst the heedless, veiled and afflicted, languish, moth-like, in their darkness of
page 19
error.  Now is the hour to be stirred even as the surging billows of the sea, and seek to attain the heights of the stars ... for time is fleeting, and the Divine Messenger will tarry no longer.  Let us make haste, and let our lamps be burning.
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
O ye the valiant servants and handmaids of the All-Glorious!
Ages, cycles, nay thousands of generations must pass before the Sun of Truth may mount its zenith and shine again in its full splendour.  Now that, praise be to God, ye have been called to life and gathered together in this Age, the Age of the Desired One, the ever-praised Beauty, the Day-Star of the Kingdom, the Most Great Luminary of the Realm on High, (may my life be offered up as a sacrifice unto His servants!) how thankful ye must be!  How faithfully and fervently should we praise and glorify His Name, inasmuch as He hath graciously aided us to receive this, His most great Blessing!  Ten thousand lives be offered for this glory and triumph; ten thousand souls be a sacrifice for such infinite care and this great victory!  The holy ones of old, whenever they imagined the wondrous vision of the Age of Bahá'u'lláh they felt as thunder-struck, and yearned for but a fleeting moment of that glorious Hour.  Praised be the Lord, we have attained thereunto and been immersed in His Ocean of Glory!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
__________
O thou endued with the Spirit of Life!
The Call of God hath proved the very life of the universe, and the animating spirit of mankind.  Behold! how it hath vivified the heart of man, and stirred the conscience of the world!  Ere long its signs shall be made manifest, and the fast asleep shall be awakened.
The Glory of God rest upon thee!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


XIV:1, April 1923
page 27
Mirrors of the Master
Addresses of Jinábí Fádil and a special interview.
Juliet Thompson
New York City,
6 March 1923.
The power of God's confirmation, in its fullness, is very mysterious.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said once to us in 'Akká:  "The magnetism for the Word of God is sincerity of intention, and until you are entirely emptied of yourselves you will never be sincere enough."  Jinábí Fádil is one entirely emptied of himself and filled with the love of God, and therefore whose words have a penetrative power, because the "trace of the Word of God" is in them.  When he speaks the word "forgiveness" the attribute of forgiveness grows in your heart; when he speaks the word "faith" you step into the world of faith; his own holiness and wisdom illumine the word "love".  By his positive representation of the attributes of the Kingdom, of the greatness of the life of the Kingdom, we see clearly where we have fallen short, where we have been childishly unseeing, where the self has gotten in the way of the larger handling of things.  We see how easy it is for love-love and faith-to conquer all-to solve simply every complicated problem.
When I went to him yesterday to ask him for news for the Star of the West-news of Shoghi Effendi and Haifa-he said:
"His Holiness Shoghi Effendi has commanded all over the world that wherever there were nine Bahá'ís there should be a spiritual assembly and that the members of every House of Spirituality should be elected on the condition that they possess all the attributes mentioned by Bahá'u'lláh.  These Houses of Spirituality must be in direct communication with one another, must benefit by one another-in other words, must co-operate with and assist one another.  They must be like the active power and the active members of the same body.  All are joined to the Heart which is in Haifa.
"One of the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh is the Law of Consultation.  The people of Bahá, in order to promulgate the Cause, should help and aid one another in all their affairs.
"His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh in his epistles and books, states that the 'tent of the order of the world is upheld by two pillars-reward and punishment', and the Heaven of the Command of God is illumined by two stars-benevolence and consultation.
"In the epistles and tablets of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá the foundation of consultation is laid down-that all the
page 28
individual Bahá'ís may be joined and connected together like members of the same body, so that no event could separate them, or cause dissension among them.
"His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in reference to consultation, states:  'The electricity of reality is produced by the friction of two opposite ideas'.  When people consult together the friction of reality always is produced.  Therefore the Bahá'ís, by the blending of thoughts, consultation and co-operation, should rise for the propagation of the Cause and diffuse its fragrances to the hearts and minds of the people.
"Of the great construction of the Cause planned by His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi is laying the foundation.  And that construction is the building of consultation, union and co-operation among the Bahá'ís so that the Bahá'ís of the East and West may become like unto members of the same body, uniting their powers.  Unitedly should they arise for the promulgation of the Cause, so that the banner of the oneness of mankind may be unfurled from the horizon of the world, that the children of the world may manifestly see this standard, and gather under its shadow."
Jinábí Fádil said further:
"I am greatly pleased with the immense activities of the Bahá'ís in this city.  They are engaged incessantly and untiringly in the promulgation of this great Cause.  From every corner of New York City the call of the Kingdom is raised.  Day and night those who have dedicated their lives are engaged in unfurling the banner of the Oneness of Mankind."
Jinábí Fádil's first appearance in New York was at St. Mark's in the Bowery, where friends from Boston and Canada joined the New York friends in welcoming him.
The following night he honoured my house by meeting a group of the teachers here, answering their questions.  He spoke of His Holiness Shoghi Effendi in a way that enkindled in every heart a longing to make the pilgrimage to the Sacred Spot, where, as Jinábí Fádil made it so clear, the Divine Centre of the Covenant, from his Abhá Kingdom, is reflecting himself in the mirror of Shoghi Effendi.  Shoghi Effendi, Jinábí Fádil told us, is the perfect mirror of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  In him we see again our beloved Master.  In face, in gesture, even in quality of mind, Shoghi Effendi gives back amazingly the reflection, the likeness, of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Friday evening he addressed Mr Bert Randall's group at St. Mark's, where he explained the Hidden Word, "Unreal friends love one another for their personal interests, but the Real Friend loveth and hath loved you for the sake of yourselves", and where he also gave a talk the substance of which he repeated to me for the Star of the West.  Its subject was "The salvation of man from egotism".
"Self and ego," he said, "were like a cage, a prison.  A man may be outwardly prosperous, but if he does not save himself from egotism, he is degraded and debased; while outside of the prison of self he is free, though (bodily) he might be in the greatest prison.  Salvation from self is only possible through the Manifestations of God, through love for Him, faith in Him, service in His path.  The lives of the followers and adherents of the Manifestations of God are the greatest proof for the validity of this statement.  The disciples of His Holiness Christ and the adherents of His cause forgot themselves in such wise that they sacrificed themselves for the world of humanity.  There are no other means for salvation from self except through faith, love and service.  Those who become ascetics, weakening their bodies in order to reach the ideal state, will never attain to their object, for weakness of body is conducive merely to weakness of spirit; because a sound soul is only in a sound body.  Therefore, we must have strong bodies and strong souls
page 29
that we may rise for the service of mankind."
Jinábí Fádil speaks sublimely on forgiveness, with a power in his simple words so amazing that whatever of the poison of resentment remains in our hearts is somehow immediately washed away.  No matter what we suffer from others we must at once forgive, he says, leaving the outcome of everything in the hands of God.  We may gently admonish, speaking frankly, but always with love and forgiveness in our hearts.  The Bahá'í martyrs softened the hearts of many of their persecutors, by the love they displayed to these enemies, under the very sword, even giving away their possessions to their murderers.  One of these martyrs said to the man appointed to kill him:  "My clothes and the money in my pockets are yours."  The man could hardly go on with the execution; but the Bahá'í said:  "Finish your work.  You cannot help it."
Whenever Jinábí Fádil speaks he gives us great examples of deeds, of heroic living, either from the lives of the Manifestations of God, or from their sincere followers, detached and lofty spirits who, lifted entirely above the influences of this world, manifest naught save greatness of spirit, the greatness of the unconquerable love of God.  On this positive aspect of life he dwells, till all that is less becomes revealed in the true measure of its littleness and unworthiness.
Of Jinábí Fádil, 'Abdu'l-Bahá has written, "there is considerable difference between him and others."
Tonight Jinábí Fádil spoke of the ascension of the holy reality of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to the Abhá Kingdom and of his increasing power throughout the world, resulting from his freedom from his body.  He told us wonderful stories of the quickening of the work in Russia, of the stirring of a new life in Turkey, Egypt, among all nations.  And he ended by saying that we are as many mirrors and the unseen Master is a Sun in the midst of mirrors.  He told us the following beautiful tale:
In a meeting in Bákú he had observed a man so humble that he marvelled at such a degree of humility, and wondered how he had attained it.  Later he was told the story.
The man had been born a Muslim, and had been a highwayman and a murderer.  But one day he asked himself-"If indeed there is a God, how shall I fare for the way I have lived?"
At last he sought out a Mullá and begged to be shown how to win the forgiveness of God.  The Mullá said:
"I will tell you.  Go, and find a Bahá'í and kill him, and you will be forgiven all your sins."
This made the man very happy, for, he said, "This is the easiest way for me to win forgiveness."
So he found a Bahá'í, who was a baker, and one day went into his bakery and began to heap insults on him, to provoke the Bahá'í, in order to have some pretext to kill him.  But the more he insulted the Bahá'í the kinder the Bahá'í became.  After a while the Bahá'í asked him to be seated and brought him food, then told him of the coming of the Blessed Perfection, and the man was obliged to give up for that time killing the Bahá'í, saying to himself, "I must try again, when he is not so kind."
However, when he returned the second time the Bahá'í was still kinder, and on the third occasion showed a spirit so divine that his would-be-murderer, already two-thirds a Bahá'í, became entirely converted.  On each visit, Jinábí Faze] said, a third of him became converted.
Wholly converted at last, he said to the Bahá'í, "Now I want to go and kill that Mullá."
But the Bahá'í answered:  "Rather, you must go and guide him, for among Bahá'ís there is no spirit of revenge-there is only peace and love."


XIV:2, May 1923
page 35
Studies in immortality
Part II
New revelations of the unseen world.
There are human sciences and divine sciences.  There is human knowledge acquired through a chain of many minds laboriously building up sets of facts, and there is divine knowledge given to humanity at intervals by a great mind which sees with the Inner Sight.
Seventy years on earth, and then countless millions of years in the unseen Kingdom-such is the relation of mortal life to life eternal.  One hundred years, even, on earth, is to the life beyond the Gateway as a tick of the clock to an eternal day.  For all humanity, therefore, the absorbing question must be:  What is the nature of the life in that endless eternity!
Who are the authorities on this subject of life beyond death?  The materialists who deny all that cannot be seen and touched?  The traditionalists who accept nothing new?  The philosophers who adhere to human reason alone as impregnable in all its deductions-deductions which change from century to century, even during the lifetime of the philosopher himself?
The materialistic scientist, the scientific philosopher follows certain immutable laws and works along them for his logical sequences.  The searcher for divine truth, equally scientific, asks what is that law of the divine universe by which we may recognize our great, trustworthy authority?
"Blessed are the pure in heart," said Jesus, "for they shall see God."  And those who can see God can see His immortal Kingdom.  But where is the heart which is absolutely pure?
There are many degrees of existence.  As the plant cannot understand the animal, as the animal is powerless to comprehend the glory of the human intellect, so man is unable to comprehend spiritual verities until he is spiritually reborn.  "Except one be born from above," said Jesus to Nicodemus, "he cannot see the Kingdom of God."  "Nicodemus had an earthly mind and only understood earthly things.  Heavenly things are alone understood by heavenly minds."  "As to the worlds whereunto Christ referred-unto whom be great glory-(the many mansions)," writes 'Abdu'l-Bahá "they are spiritual, divine, heavenly, single, unlocated; neither the imperfect mind can comprehend them nor the sinning soul can know them.  But verily the vision of the people of the Kingdom of Bahá perceives them and the intellects of the people of the Supreme Concourse apprehend them."
In a word, the masters of divine science are those who have divine character.
page 36
Knowing themselves, they know their God, because He abides within them.  The most pure, perfect and divine of men are the great world prophets.  It is through contact with their teachings and their spirits, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá has so wonderfully explained in the article on education in this present issue, that human beings are spiritually reborn.  In fact, the degrees of existence are:  first, the mineral; second, the plant; third, the animal; fourth, the rational soul; fifth, the spiritually reborn, and sixth the Divine Prophets.  These Divine Prophets are so pure and perfect that we call them the primal mirrors, the Manifestations of God.  When they tell us of the many mansions of the Father's house they speak of what they have seen and heard.  Their utterances are revelations of eternal verities.  "I have yet many thing to say unto you," said Jesus, "but ye cannot bear them now.  Howbeit when he, the Spirit of Truth is come, he shall guide you into all the Truth."
Our age of doubt is divinely blessed in having in its midst such masters, who reveal the fuller truth about immortal life.  Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá have given the most complete descriptions of life in the unseen worlds of God recorded in spiritual literature.
Some questions answered by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Question:  What will become of the soul of man after death?
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The body goes under the earth.  Thence it came and thither it goes.  Everything that you see returns to its own place.  As the human body came from dust, to dust it returns.  But the human spirit comes from God and to Him it returns.-Star of the West, VII:9, p. 77.
__________
"Thus, it is apparent that the soul, even as the body, has its own individuality.  But if the body undergoes a change, the spirit need not be touched.  When you break a glass on which the sun shines, the glass is broken, but the sun still shines!  If a cage containing a bird is destroyed, the bird is unharmed!  If a lamp is broken, the flame can still burn bright!
"The same thing applies to the spirit of man."-Paris Talks, pp. 65-66.
__________
The spirits of the sons of the Kingdom, after the disintegration of this body ascend to the world of eternal existence; but should you ask the place, know thou that that world of existence is the world of unity, but the grades are different.  For instance, the mineral existence has a grade, but the mineral being has no knowledge of the vegetable kingdom.  It (the mineral existence) has no information of a higher realm, nay, rather, according to appearances it may deny the higher grade.  Likewise, vegetable life has no knowledge of the animal kingdom.  It is entirely heedless and unconscious of that kingdom, because the grade of the animal is higher than that of the vegetable.  The vegetable, owing to its limited environment, is veiled from knowledge of the animal kingdom and may deny it, although the animal, the vegetable and the mineral live in the world of existence.  Likewise the animal cannot comprehend man's faculties of intelligence which generalize concerning the universal and discover the mysteries of being, so that while living in the East he organizes and founds institutions in the West, and he reveals hidden things.  Though he abides in Europe he discovers America; though he dwells upon the earth he unravels the realities of the solar system.  The animal is entirely unconscious of, nay, rather, is a denier of this intelligent force which penetrates into the unknown and comprehends the general as well as the particular ideas of this illimitable universe.
Likewise the people of the world lack knowledge of the world of the Kingdom, nay, rather, they deny it.  Do we not hear from their lips words such as these:  "Where is the Kingdom?  Where is the Lord of the Kingdom?"  But these souls are like unto the mineral and vegetable who know nothing of the animal and human kingdoms.  They neither see nor search.  However, the mineral, the vege-
page 37
table and the animal all live in this world of existence.
The divine trials are in this world, not in the world of the Kingdom.
The human reality in the other world has no physical likeness, nay, rather, it has the likeness of the Kingdom, which consists of the harmonious elements of the realm of the spiritual kingdom.
The centre of the Sun of Truth and of the supreme world is the Divine Kingdom.  Those souls who are purified and sanctified, after the disintegration of this elemental tabernacle hasten to the Divine Realm, and that realm is in this universe, but the people of this world have no knowledge of it, just as the mineral and vegetable kingdoms have no knowledge of the animal and human kingdoms.-From a Tablet to Mr and Mrs Ostburg, Boston, Massachusetts.
__________
Question:  "Do the dead pass entirely away from the earth, losing all consciousness of and interest in the people and affairs of the world?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "No, the dead retain both interest in and remembrance of those they love."-From Mrs Aline Devine's notes, taken at 'Akká, October, 1906.
__________
Question:  "What is the connection of the spirit with the body?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "It has the same connection as the sun has with the mirror.  Death is the name for the dissolution of this connection."-From Mírzá Mahmúd's Diary, July, 1912.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Concerning the question of death, know that the spirit is abstracted and sanctified from all things; for entrance and departure, ascent and descent, union and separation are the properties of material beings and not of the spirit.  Consequently, the human spirit does not enter into the physical body, nay, rather, it has some 'attachment' (to it).  This 'attachment' is like that of the mirror and the sun.  The sun neither enters into nor does it go out of the surface of the mirror, nor does it absolutely identify itself with it, but it (the sun) has some attachment to the mirror and reflects itself therein.  However, when this attachment is broken the mirror is deprived of illumination, beauty and effulgence."-From Tablet to Madame D'Astre of Paris, dated 21 May 1908.
__________
Question:  "What is meant by the Mirror for Divine Reflection?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "'Mirror' is the whole body, the brain in particular.  Body has many elements in its composition and these are continually changed during one's lifetime.  At dissolution each element is received back to its original source.  The physical body of man is like that of the animal, the only difference being on the level of consciousness.  It follows therefore that only consciousness or mind is left after death.  Electricity is known by its attributes and effects.  The power of consciousness is also thus recognized.  After death the condition is one which cannot be clearly explained in words.  It is one of comprehension, understanding which involves all other things-feeling, etc.
"In beings there are degrees; all are not in the same station.  Observe the various characters to be seen and compared, say, among ten children who have received identically the same treatment, training and food.  Three degrees will be found, which might be classed as, rapid development, less rapid, and almost stagnant."
Question:  "Is there any predominant quality which man should develop in order to obtain especial excellence or power after death?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "No, man should develop all his qualities for each quality has its own use and function."
Question:  "Is individuality retained by the various individual consciousnesses?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Complete individuality belongs only to the station of the Prophet.  Those who follow him are under the 'shadow' of his station.  After death man does not develop through conscious effort, but through the power of Divine Bounty or unfoldment.  All good works, loving memories, prayers and help from lesser beings assist the soul to push for-
page 38
ward after death."-Questions asked at Ramleh, May, 1911.
__________
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "You will retain your individuality and will not be swallowed up in one vast spirit.  Concerning the condition of the human soul after its ascension from the material world:  the essence of the human soul is clarified from material substances and purified from the embodiment of physical things.  It is exclusively luminous; it has no body; it is a dazzling pencil of light; it is a celestial orb of brightness."
__________
"Those souls who are not vivified and attracted by the Holy Spirit are accounted among the dead, because their souls are deprived of the Breath of the Holy Spirit; and these, after physical death, are in a certain condition, having feeling and discernment in their environment; but in comparison with the pure souls who have been vivified by the Holy Spirit they are as dead, and deprived of life."-From an early Tablet to Mr F. C. Helbry, Tacoma, Washington.
__________
"Thou hast asked concerning the spirits of men.  They are not at all annihilated.  They are immortal.  But the spirits of heavenly souls will find eternal life, that is, they will attain to the highest and most great stations of perfection.  But the spirits of the heedless souls although they are immortal yet they are in a world of imperfection, concealment and ignorance.  This is a concise answer.  Contemplate, and meditate upon it in order that thou mayest comprehend the reality of the mysteries in detail.  For instance, no matter how much the mineral has existence and life yet, in comparison with man, it is entirely non-existent and deprived of life.  When man is transformed, translated, from life to death, his comparative station will be that of the mineral existence.  In such wise, the mineral life typifies the death of man.  This is a brief answer.
"We cannot realize in this world the bounty of God nor can we appreciate His love.  But in the next world we can do so."
The glory of immortal life
From the Words of Bahá'u'lláh.
"But concerning that which you have asked about the spirit and its everlastingness after its ascension:  know that it will ascend at the time of its departure until it enters the presence of God in a form which throughout all centuries and times and throughout all circumstances and events of the world will remain unchanged but will be everlasting as the perpetuity of the Kingdom of God, His sovereignty, His power and His might, and from it will appear the traces of God, His qualities, providences and favours.
"The pen cannot move at the mentioning of this station as it is in its supremeness and exaltation.  The Hand of Divine Bounty will cause the spirit to enter into a station which cannot be comprehended by expression nor be explained by all the creatures of existence.  Blessing be upon the spirit who departed from the body purified from the doubts and superstitions of the nations.  Verily it moves in the atmosphere of God's pleasure and enters into the Supreme Paradise.  All the angels of the Supreme Paradise attend and surround it; and it will have fellowship with all the prophets of God and His saints and will speak with them and tell them what happened to it in the Cause of God, the Lord of the universe.  If anyone could realize what hath been assigned in the Kingdom of God, the Lord of the throne and the dust, he would immediately yearn with a great longing for that immovable, exalted, holy and most glorious station.
"O 'Abdu'l-Vahháb, now listen in the Persian language!
"As you asked about the immortality of the spirit, this Wronged One beareth witness to its eternality; and as to your question about its form-it cannot be described, and is not needful to be expressed; but only some things need to be known and messengers come only to guide the creatures to the straight path of God and in order that people may be trained.  Then at the time of their ascen-
page 39
sion, with perfect holiness and separation and having been cut from the things of this world, they will repair to the Supreme Station.  By the Self of God, the rays of those spirits are the cause of the development of the people and the station of the nations!  These are the leaves of existence and the greatest cause of the appearance of divinity and the works of the universe.  By them the clouds will shower and the plants of earth spring up.  Not one thing of all existing things is without cause, reason and beginning.  The greatest cause is that the spirits were and are forever above us unequal.  And the difference between this (earthly) kingdom and the other is as the difference between the embryonic world and this world.  After its ascension the spirit will enter into the presence of God in a form suited for eternity and for the Kingdom."
Eternal reunion
From Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas.
"O thou spiritual friend!  This world is a prison for heavenly souls and this earthly world is but a cage, and not a nest, unto divine birds.  A prisoner who is awake and conscious will certainly seek for freedom, and a mindful bird will certainly wish for deliverance from the cage."-Vol. I, p. 109.
__________
"Do not grieve on account of the death of thy son, neither sigh nor lament.  That nightingale soared up to the divine rose garden; that drop returned to the most great ocean of truth; that foreigner hastened to his native abode and that one who was ill found salvation and life eternal.-Vol. I, p. 99.
__________
"Be not grieved at the death of thy dear daughter.  That divine bird flew away to the rose garden of the Merciful and that plant of humanity hastened to the garden of the Kingdom of Abhá.  That drop returned to the Most Great Sea and that ray betook herself to the Most Great Orb.  Be happy and thankful, because thou wilt see her face shining in the Divine Kingdom and wilt find her as a lamp amid an assembly in the spiritual heaven."-Vol. I, p. 179.
__________
"Be not sorrowful on account of the departure of thy good son.  He hath indeed departed from this narrow and gloomy world, which is darkened by unlimited sorrow, unto the Kingdom which is spacious, illumined, joyous and beautiful.  God delivered him from this dark well and promoted him to the Supreme Height.  He gave him wings whereby he soared to the heaven of happiness.  Verily this is the great mercy, from Him who is Precious and Forgiving."-Vol. I, p. 51.
__________
"Mrs _____ hastened from this mortal world to the divine world and soared from this temporal realm to the expanse of the Kingdom.  She abandoned the earthly cage and flew toward the bower of the upper world; so that, like unto a nightingale of significances she may in that divine rose garden engage in praising, glorifying and sanctifying the True One with the most marvellous melody.  Consequently, do ye not sigh in grief because of her decease and be not dejected on account of her ascension.
"To the people of adoration death is an ark of deliverance and to pure souls flight from this world of dust is the means of attaining to the kingdom of spheres.  By 'spheres' is not meant this infinite space, nay, rather, is meant the divine world and the invisible realm."-Vol. II, p. 443.
__________
"O my dear daughter! ...  Indeed the separation from thy dear husband is very hard and difficult for thee.  But he obtained the privilege of beholding the beauty of the Almighty.  We, and you will also soar to that world, and you will find his shining face visible in the heavenly realm and in the world of the Kingdom, and you will find eternal union with him.
"Be thou assured that he has not been lost; he is in existence, that is, in the pure world.  And know thou for certain that thou hast not lost him, for thou shalt find him in the end.
"Have therefore patience and endurance and be thou firm and at rest, and seek
page 40
God's mercy and benevolence in his behalf.  I, too, will pray and beg for him everlasting glory.  Be patient, so that thou mayest find great reward and see thy respected husband in the Divine Kingdom in the end, and find peace of soul and rest of heart."-From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a friend in Cleveland, Ohio.
__________
"O thou beloved maidservant of God, although the loss of a son is indeed heart-breaking and beyond the limits of human endurance, yet one who knoweth and understandeth is assured that the son hath not been lost but, rather, hath stepped from this world into another, and she will find him in the divine realm.  That reunion shall be for eternity, while in this world separation is inevitable and bringeth with it a burning grief.
"Praise be unto God that thou hast faith, art turning thy face toward the everlasting Kingdom and believest in the existence of a heavenly world.  Therefore be thou not disconsolate, do not languish, do not sigh, neither wail nor weep; for agitation and mourning deeply affect his soul in the divine realm.
"That beloved child addresseth thee from the hidden world:  'O thou kind Mother, thank divine Providence that I have been freed from a small and gloomy cage and, like the birds of the meadows, have soared to the divine world-a world which is spacious, illumined, and ever gay and jubilant.  Therefore, lament not, O Mother, and be not grieved; I am not of the lost, nor have I been obliterated and destroyed.  I have shaken off the mortal form and have raised my banner in this spiritual world.  Following this separation is everlasting companionship.  Thou shalt find me in the heaven of the Lord, immersed in an ocean of light.'"-Selections from Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, No. 171, p. 201.  Tablet translated by Shoghi Effendi, 18 January 1918.
__________
"O thou whose soul is tranquillized by the grace of God and by the Greatest Gift!  Verily I inform thee of that by which thy breast will be dilated with joy, thy heart will rejoice and thy soul will be delighted in every time and moment.  And it is this, that verily thy honoured Wife, who journeyed unto God and hastened unto the Blessed Spot, her heart ignited with the fire of the love of God and her sight and gaze extended toward the Kingdom of Abhá, was firm in the Testament, and was overtaken by death in the land of Beirut, is now attracted to 'The Living One who shall never die'.
"Verily, she surrendered her life while she was in a condition wherein she was encompassed with the glad tidings of thy Lord from all directions and her nostrils were perfumed with the fragrances of holiness from the Supreme Concourse.  Her soul soared up to the summit of sanctity, under the shelter of the mercy of thy Lord, the Mighty, where the concourse of the chosen ones are assembled around it in the Lofty Paradise, and the angels of mercy are blessing it and are speaking its praise while their faces are smiling because of her ascension to heaven.
"By the life of God, wert thou informed of her prosperity and of the bounty with which she is surrounded and of the favours of thy Lord, which were her greatest desire, thou wouldst smile with joy, thy breast would be dilated and thou wouldst thank God for that which He hath poured upon her; that He hath adorned her with the embroidery of sanctity and purity in His Kingdom, the Abhá; and that He hath crowned her with the diadem of the Greatest Gift in the Supreme Concourse.-From an early Tablet to Mr Percells of Chicago.
Preparation for the immortal degrees
"O servants!  If in these visible days and in this present world conditions contrary to your wish appear from the Realm of Decree be ye not depressed for happy and divine days shall come and spiritual worlds of holiness shall be manifest.  In all those days and worlds for you a portion is ordained, a sustenance is deter-
page 41
mined and a food is established.  Ye shall certainly attain to all these, should ye exchange the garment of mortality for the garment of immortality and enter the station of the paradise of Abhá which is the everlasting abode of glorious, sacred souls.  All things are a proof of your existence, if ye emerge from the gloomy dust of non-existence.  Be not grieved at the hardships of these numbered days and be not dejected if your outward bodies are destroyed in the Path of the Beloved One; for every destruction is followed by a construction and a paradise of rest is concealed in every hardship."-Words of Bahá'u'lláh.
__________
"In the beginning of his life man was in the matrix of the world.  There he obtained capacity and preparation for this world.  The forces and powers necessary for this world he obtained there.  In this world he needed eyes; he received them potentially in the other world.  He needed ears; therefore he obtained them in the world of the matrix.  Thus was he prepared for this world.  When he came to this world he found that all the necessary forces were ready; all his needs for material sustenance were provided.
"Likewise, in this world he must also prepare himself and become ready for the life hereafter.  That which he needs in the world of the Kingdom he must obtain here.  Just as man prepared himself for existence in this world by acquiring the necessary forces in the world of the matrix so is it necessary that all the forces needful in the Kingdom be acquired in this world.
"After he is transferred from this world to the other world what is man in need of for the life of the Kingdom?  In that world there is need of radiance; therefore radiance must be acquired in this world.  In that world there is need of spirituality; he must acquire spirituality in this world.  In that world faith and assurance, the knowledge of God and the love of God are essential; these he must acquire in this world so that after he ascends from this world to that immortal world he shall find ready for him all that is needful in that life eternal."-From the Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
__________
"The more difficulties one sees in the world the more perfect one becomes.  The more you plough and dig the ground the more fertile it becomes.  The more you cut the branches of a tree the higher and stronger it grows.  The more you put the gold in the fire the purer it becomes.  The more you sharpen the steel by grinding the better it cuts.  Therefore, the more sorrows one sees the more perfect one becomes.  That is why, in all times, the Prophets of God have had tribulations and difficulties to withstand.  The more often the captain of a ship is in the tempest and difficult sailing the greater his knowledge becomes.  Therefore I am happy that you have had great tribulations and difficulties.  For this I am very happy-that you have had many sorrows.  Strange it is that I love you and still I am happy that you have sorrows."-From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, about 1910.
__________
"Convey my spiritual greetings to the maidservant of God ... and say unto her:  "Verily for each one of the Manifestations of the previous cycles there was a certain station in existence, and a particular degree in the creation of man.  But the Manifestation of the Greatest Name-may my spirit be a sacrifice for His beloved ones-was an expression of maturity and perfection in the essence of humanity and the world of existence; just as the sun is the centre of light, the source of heat and the point of illumination, comprising all the perfections which were manifested to the world from the shining stars.  Endeavour, so that thou mayest obtain an abundant portion and a great share from the Manifest Light.
"Verily I say unto thee, if thou arrivest at that station thou shalt behold all the holy people humble and submissive at that station.  Make haste in life before death, spring before autumn, healing before sickness.  Thus mayest thou be-
page 42
come a spiritual physician, healing all manner of diseases by the breaths of the Holy Spirit in this glorious century and manifest age."-From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, 1902, to Mrs I. D. Brittingham.1


XIV:2, May 1923
page 42
Two kinds of education
The idealistic youth of today long for education as for the fountain of living water.  They make countless sacrifices, work day and night to win an education, travel half-way around the world that they may enter a modern scientific and technical university.  China, Japan, India, Turkey, Egypt, Persia, in fact almost every country of the world is sending its brightest youth to the great universities and technical colleges of Europe and America.  The true leaders in all countries today are realizing that education is the only solution for our social and international problems.
But what kind of an education shall it be?  A brilliant technical education, alone, may be used for the destruction of all civilization.  Education is what makes modern warfare so terrible.  Present day generals and engineers, chemists and airmen are so finely trained in modern science and its technical application that they can destroy human beings with an efficiency undreamed of in all past ages.
Evidently something is lacking in western education.  'Abdu'l-Bahá strikes the keynote for the future in the following address upon the essential necessity of education.  He answers the question which the whole world is asking.  This address was given by him in the Unitarian Church at Dublin, New Hampshire, Sunday, 11 August 1912.  It was taken down in Persian and given by 'Abdu'l-Bahá to Dr Baghdádí who, with two friends, has rendered it into English for this issue of the Star of the West.
__________
That the world of nature is imperfect and needs education is to the wise beyond question.  Consider, man uneducated is in utmost barbarism and distress; through education man becomes a man.  Left to himself he will be as other animals.  Look at the civilized countries.  There man is educated acquires ideals, becomes civilized, wise and perfect.  But in savage countries, such as Central Africa, man, because he receives no education, remains in the state of barbarism.  The difference between America and Central Africa is this that in the United States there is education and in Africa there is no education.  The people of Africa have remained in their natural state; but among the inhabitants of this country (America) education has great effect and is firmly established.
Education straightens a crooked branch.  Education makes the jungle into a rose garden.  Education causes the fruitless tree to become fruitful, changes the thorn patch into a cultivated field, makes devastated countries to flourish.  Through education the savage become civilized.  Through education the ignorant become wise, the imperfect are made perfect.  Education informs man of the world of the Kingdom, makes him aware of God.  Education endows man with spiritual susceptibilities, enables him to discover the mysteries of nature, makes him aware of the realities of the Kingdom.  In short, it is clear to all that the
page 43
world of nature is imperfect, and through education will attain perfection.
But for education man would have remained as other animals, nay, lower than animals for some deeds proceed from man which do not occur among the animals.  For instance, the animal to satisfy his hunger may devour one animal.  But man, devoid of education, and ferocious, kills in a day a hundred thousand people.  Consider how those ferocious souls who have come into the world are lower even than wolves, are beneath the carnivorous animals.  It is evident that if man is not educated he is lower than an animal.
There are two kinds of education:  divine and material.  The philosophers who have arisen are material teachers, have given the people material training and have been the cause of the progress of the world of nature.  But the holy Manifestations of God are divine educators.  The philosophers have educated the world of bodies; the divine, holy Manifestations have trained souls.  His Holiness Christ-unto him be glory!-was a spiritual educator, the educator of the Kingdom, the Divine Educator.  He educated souls, trained the human reason to see the verities of the spirit.  But the philosophers have served material civilization, educating from the material standpoint.
Man, in reality, is in need of both material and divine education.  If, however, he does not receive heavenly instruction, if he receives material education only he will be as other animals, for animals discover the bodily verities, the facts of nature, the realities which can be sensed.  But God has created in man a power which may perceive mental verities and which may discover the realities of the Kingdom.  That power becomes aware of divine bounties, is the cause of eternal life, bestows ideal perfections.  That power distinguishes man from the animal because the animal knows but the nether world while man discovers the verities of Heaven.
Man though he progress materially is in need of the breaths of the Holy Spirit, of divine education, of the outpourings of the Kingdom.  Not until man receives this bounty can he become perfect.  Therefore the holy, divine Manifestations have appeared in every cycle and dispensation so that they may give the human souls this divine education, may banish the imperfections of the human world and make manifest ideal perfections.  The world of nature is like a jungle.  His Holiness the Christ was the divine gardener.  He made this jungle to be a rose garden, these fruitless trees fruitful.  These lands which according to the laws of nature should bring forth weeds and tares he filled with roses and tulips.  This Divine Farmer sowed the earth with seeds; the worthless grass he threw away.  The thorn bushes which according to the law of nature should grow he rooted out, and through divine education the thorny place became a rose garden.  Had it remained in its original state it would have been either a jungle or a bramble patch.
The point is this, that man, however much he may progress materially, however much he may acquire of material perfection belongs, still, to the animal world and is in need of the breaths of the Holy Spirit, of divine education.  If man partakes of the breaths of the Holy Spirit then the divine reality appears in the human world in utmost perfection and man becomes as the image and likeness of God.  He that was earthly becomes heavenly; he that was of the nether world lives now in the divine world; he who was materialistic becomes spiritual; he who was dark is illumined.  And this is only possible through the breaths of the Holy Spirit.
The holy, divine Manifestations give a new spirit and a new mind to man, are the cause of great progress; they illumine the world.  However, a short while after (their appearance) the darkness and gloom of materialism, of nature, again prevail.  The heavenly illumination (the light of the Manifestation) passes
page 44
away and natural susceptibilities become dominant.  It is as though a farmer comes and cultivates land which was full of tares and weeds, and the land brings forth abundant harvest.  Then, when left to itself the land once more becomes a thorn patch and a place of weeds.
One time, in Persia, there was a blessed farming land, and through the power of the holy Manifestations that jungle became a rose garden.  The darkness of ignorance vanished and heavenly illumination appeared.  But soon again the East became entirely dark; no light at all remained; no trace of the divine bounty, nor spiritual education.  At such a time as this His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh appeared; at a time when the Eastern nations were in utmost strife and conflict, when the leaders of religions were drinking one another's blood, when sects were battling with each other, intense hatred was rife among the people and no trace of love or heavenly illumination remained.  At such a time His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh appeared from the horizon of the East.  He taught:  the oneness of mankind ..., universal peace ..., that reason and religion must conform ..., that men and women are equal ....  The people of the East were very ignorant.  Bahá'u'lláh announced that all people must acquire knowledge, that all children whether in the cities or in the villages must go to school, that it is the duty of all to teach and educate the children.  Should the father and mother be unable to educate the children and have not the means therefor, then society must take care of them and educate them so that not one single soul remains in ignorance.  Bahá'u'lláh taught that in all schools and colleges sciences, both divine and material, should be taught, in order that the students may discover material realities and the realities of the Kingdom, for material sciences are as the body and divine sciences are as the spirit.  The body must live by the spirit.  If the spirit does not exist the body then is dead.  Though the body be in utmost beauty, yet, if deprived of the outpourings of the spirit it will be fruitless and of benefit to no one, nay, rather, its non-existence were better than its existence. ...  His Holiness Christ says in the Gospel, the one who is born of the flesh is flesh and the one who is born of the spirit is spirit.  The interpretation of this verse is this, that physical things are like the body but the breaths of the Holy Spirit are the spirit (in the body).  The body must live by the spirit, and therefore His Holiness Christ spoke of the second birth.
What is the second birth?  It is this:  Man while in the matrix world is deprived of bounties.  When ushered into this world from that of the matrix he finds himself the possessor of eyes, ears, physical powers, of intelligence.  Although God gave all these bounties to man, in the matrix world they were not yet apparent.  Only when born into this world did these divine bounties become manifest.  Man then found that eyes had been given to him, that he was possessed of ears, and that powers which could discover all created things had been granted him.  He saw the sun, and beheld the moon; he glanced at the sea, and witnessed the plains.  A rose garden he saw, green and verdant.  Of all these things he was unaware in the matrix world; of them he had no knowledge.
In like manner must man be born out of this world of nature that he may enter into the world of the Kingdom.  Unless he be born from this world he cannot attain to spiritual susceptibilities nor can he discover the mysteries of the Kingdom nor behold the realm of God.  When in the matrix world man could receive no tidings of this world.  In that world he was, rather, a denier of this world for had anyone said to him that there was a world other than that of the matrix, a world most vast and spacious, where a sun was shining everywhere, and a moon, where a rose garden grew in utmost beauty-had this been said to him he would have denied such news, saying there is no world save this (the matrix) world.  But when he is born he sees that
page 45
this world is a different world.  It is an infinite world, where stars are shining in the heaven and rivers are flowing toward the sea, where rose gardens are adornments and orchards are as embroidery.
Again, the human world is like the animal world.  What does it (the animal world) know of the world of the Kingdom?  What does it know of God, of spirituality, of divine bounties?  When he is born from the world of nature then will man see the world of the Kingdom, then will he behold the lights of the Sun of Reality and will comprehend the manifestations of divine bounty.  He will then be submerged in the sea of the lights of mercy and will understand the secrets of second birth.
The holy, divine Manifestations of God have come for this purpose, that man may be informed of the Kingdom of the Lord of Hosts, that he may know divine realities and may attain to the second birth.


XIV:2, May 1923
page 45
Bahá'í Assemblies
Horace Holley
When evening twilight falls upon the world, and shadows cast from the western mountains fill the home, then the servant goes from room to room, lighting the lamps, in order that darkness may not oppress the people of the household.
And, in the same way, when the evening of civilization approaches; when the light of custom and tradition dies; when the mind stumbles, the heart fails and the soul is enshrouded with sudden fear; when the works of shadow and darkness are done-by wars, by strife, by confusion; and the prescience of universal ruin flies like a bat of ill omen over the uplifted heads and staring eyes; then the Divine Servant passes silently from room to room of the household of the world, lighting the lamps of hearts with the flame of spirit, whose illumination, for those who are severed from all save spirit, is as the rising of the True Dawn after the overcoming of that besetting inner twilight which the world miscalls truth, misterms [applies a misnomer to] reality, misconceives as life.
But when the lamps of the hearts are lighted, then silently, then mysteriously, even as the Divine Servant came, so He departs; and in that departing we know Him by the glory of the illumination whose rays have penetrated the heart; or we know Him not at all.
This is the first solemnity of the hush of that hour when it is realized that 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Divine Servant, having lighted the lamps throughout the household of the East and West, departs unto that Source of Light whence He came.
The shining of the lamps of hearts lighted by the hand of the Divine Servant is the mystery whose outward manifestation stands visible in the life of the world as Bahá'í Assemblies, lamps that shone unseen in the last flickering moments of that false illumination of the material age; lamps that shine the more brightly as material daylight ebbs from the life of men.
For the believers, this is the mystery to be considered, the task to be realized, the worthiness to be attained:  that from their unity and by their unity the fulfilment of the coming of the Divine Servant may be established in the foundations of the New Age throughout the world.  The unity of the believers one with another is as the rays of light from the lamp.  If unity does not exist-unity in
page 46
the depths of spirit-then the lamp burns only to itself; for the world it would be as though the lamp had not been lighted, and as though the Divine Servant had not come.
For the lamp burns not to itself, but to the world, through the manifold rays which the believers are:  each believer a ray, all the believers the visible shining of the lamp.  The lamp shines not through one ray, but through the infinity of rays; not upon one object, but upon all objects; not for one horizon, but unto all the horizons.  Through the personal unlikeness of the believers, the glory of the lamp is manifested.  No believer can be spared, lest the lamp be shorn of its rays.
Therefore, in a Bahá'í Assembly, all the aspects of personal unlikeness exist.  The believers are not of one kind, not of one sort, not of one character, not of one training, not of one capacity; which unlikeness is essential to the full shining of the lamp.  But the believers are alike in this, that each is a ray of light shining forth from the lamp, whereby the lamp illumines one particular object, one special horizon, revealing itself to that horizon through that one ray which the believer, by reason of his faithfulness, his devotion, his selflessness, has become.  The lamp shines through all its rays, and no ray is more important than any other ray shining from the lamp.
Each of the believers has two aspects and two stations.  He has the aspect and station of his personality, which is the aspect and station of difference; and he has the aspect and station of the ray, which is the aspect and station of oneness.  The oneness of the believers is the lamp lighted by the hand of the Divine Servant; the difference of the believers is the work of the world of nature and of mankind, in whose activity we evolve and by whose influence we are conditioned.
In the life of mankind there have been many lamps, each lamp shining unto one room, one community, one horizon; and the rays of these lamps could not overcome the darkness beyond the one room where the lamp shone.  Now there is but one lamp, the Sun of Truth, whose shining is for all the rooms of the household of humanity, all the horizons of experience, all the objects of thought and activity.
Therefore, that the oneness of the Sun of Truth may be manifested, it has become necessary in this New Age that the rays shall have no confinement; that all the distinctions shall be burned away; that reality shall be perceived by one light and known of one spirit.  Wherefore, in every Bahá'í Assembly, all the conditions of humanity-all the separateness, all the differences, all the degrees, all the capacities, all the kinds, all the influences built up during the evolution that has gone before-must needs, by the providential law of this New Age, be made one gathering, manifesting the oneness of the Sun of Truth even despite the testimony and evidence of all the differences of personality which emanate from the influence of the world.
This is the mystery of a Bahá'í Assembly:  not that its members readily agree, but that they can overcome their differences; not that they are one in personality, in instinctive sympathy, in ambition, in desire, in training, in influence, but that they can penetrate to the foundation of oneness revealed by the glory of the Sun.
Every Bahá'í Assembly is the world in miniature, containing the differences and personal problems of the world, even intensified to the utmost degree.  This is our glory, our privilege, our attainment, our distinction; not our weakness, not our shame.  No other power save the power of the Sun of Truth could have revealed the oneness in so much difference.  It is the spirit of this oneness overcoming our manifold differences, that makes a Bahá'í Assembly a divine foundation, a healing for the world, an inspiration for those who turn from darkness and seek light.  Elsewhere differences are organized, but here is unity; elsewhere darkness is worshipped, but here the light shines; elsewhere activity is the
page 47
pursuit of shadows and reflections, but here activity has one end and aim:  that each of the believers may attain to selflessness, and become a ray emanating from the Sun of Truth.
May the friends of the Divine Servant continually assist one another to arise from the station of personality to the station of selflessness which is the station of the ray.  May we become infinitely considerate one of another, having cast out pride, ambition, thought and desire, which are veils of the personal self.  May we be ever conscious that the unity of each Bahá'í Assembly in itself, and the unity of all the Bahá'í Assemblies one with another, are the preliminary condition to that world unity for which the Divine became [a] Servant in this age.  May we be ever conscious that the ray is nothing in itself, but is an emanation from the Sun; that the Sun manifests its power through the ray, and the Sun is all in all.
Then, as the personalities diminish, and the world weakens its secret hold upon the hearts, the Sun will assert its predominant power, having rays unto all the horizons.  Then even the consciousness of yielding up self will flee as the ultimate shadow before the Dawn, and the meeting of this selflessness; the community of this faithfulness, will penetrate humanity with a new spirit and a new life.
Now is the work of becoming selfless; but the work of the Sun is at hand.


XIV:2, May 1923
page 48
Letters from Shoghi Effendi
American communities in 31 cities
Dearest Fellow-workers in the Vineyard of God,
Though your number in each of these cities be small and limited, yet by virtue of that Celestial Potency bequeathed to every one of you by our departed Master, you are assured that ere long your small company shall expand and wield such power and influence as no earthly power can ever hope for or attain.  Who can doubt that he is ever watching from his Station on High over his scattered fold and is guiding and strengthening his faithful lovers who toil and labour for the fulfilment of his Word and the realization of his Purpose for mankind?
As we observe the sad conditions of the world and the complexity of the problems that are besetting humanity, we may at times lose heart and grow forgetful of the promised dawn of the New Day, so repeatedly and emphatically foretold in the Sacred Writings.  But we need only refer to some of the earliest writings of our beloved Master to regain that confidence which the vicissitudes of the world, however distressing, can never shake.  Are not these words wherein he assures us of the onward march of the Cause-a march which no one can resist and which is sure to lead humanity to its glorious destiny?
"Now in the world of being, the Hand of Divine Power hath firmly laid the foundations of this all-highest bounty and this wondrous gift.  Whatsoever is latent in the innermost of this Holy Cycle shall gradually appear and be made manifest, for now is but the beginning of its growth and the day-spring of the revelation of its signs.  Ere the close of this century and of this age it shall be made clear and evident how wondrous was that spring-tide and how heavenly was that gift!"
And as the outlook grows darker and despondency overtakes the hearts, it is incumbent upon us to arise with greater confidence than ever before, endeavouring to clear the mists of hate and prejudice that have dimmed the vision of mankind and, relying upon these assuring words of his, point out to a weary world the Way of True Salvation.
I very eagerly await the news of the progress of the Movement in your cities and shall be grateful and delighted to hear that you have reinforced your numbers, extended your activities, established a centre and founded a Spiritual Assembly that shall direct and co-ordinate your efforts for the promotion of the Cause.
Awaiting your joyful news and beseeching the blessings of the Almighty upon your efforts,
I am your brother and co-worker,
(Signed) Shoghi
Haifa, Palestine, 8 January 1923.
page 49
San Francisco, California
The Beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful in San Francisco, California, USA.
Beloved Friends,
The various tidings that have directly and indirectly reached the Holy Land regarding the combined efforts which the friends of the Western States have recently exerted for the promotion of the Cause in those regions, and in which the friends in that city have shared in no small degree, have filled our hearts with a joy that no words can express.
It is indeed gratifying to learn how your flourishing city, so rich and splendid in its material gifts, so similar in its atmosphere and peaceful surroundings to the Holy Land, and potentially endowed with such spiritual capacity, is now taking a leading part in lending afresh impetus to the onward march of the Movement in regions which, though distant and remote, are yet so near and dear to the Master's heart.
May your patient efforts be crowned with signal success and may the Light of this Divine Revelation so illumine your city as to justify the high hopes which our Beloved had confidently reposed in every one of you.
We all remember you very tenderly during our visits to the Three Holy Shrines and beseech every time with renewed ardour the blessings of the Almighty upon your labours.
Your friend and co-worker,
(Signed) Shoghi
30 December 1922.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
To the Beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
Care of the Members of the Spiritual Assembly.
My Loving Friends,
Whenever I recall the tender affection with which the beloved Master referred to you in His spoken as well as in His written words I feel that the day may not be distant when the friends of that city will as the standard-bearers of the Cause herald to their fellow-countrymen and to the world at large the glad-tidings of this glorious Revelation.
Assured and strengthened by the memories of the many blessings that have been yours in the past, it is now assuredly the time to arise with one accord for the fulfilment of our sacred obligations, the pre-requisites of the speedy realization of such brilliant success in the Cause.
With hearts united, with minds purified and with a determination never to waver or surrender, let us step into the arena of service and armed with the sword of utterance and teaching combat effectively the ills and sicknesses of this distracted world.
We need not feel depressed or overwhelmed with the magnitude of the task for the mighty combatants whom the hands of the Master have raised in every part of the globe shall come to our aid and the Hosts of the Unseen shall reinforce our numbers till the Spirit of Love and Peace even as foretold in the Holy Writ of Bahá'u'lláh will have filled the world.
I pray constantly on your behalf that your vision may never be dimmed and your courage may never falter in His Path.
I am as ever your co-worker,
(Signed) Shoghi
30 December 1922.


XIV:2, May 1923
page 50
The Bahá'í Dispensation
Elizabeth Herrick
The history of the coming of the Kingdom of God on earth is the story of God's love for mankind.  Rejection of it is the greatest of all tragedies, and the root cause of the trials of men and nations.
Today they need Divine Guidance more than ever, and know not where to find that which meets all the needs of the world.  True, they are beginning to turn again to that which in past days was rejected, and this is good; but if they understand it, they will not repeat the tragedy of rejecting the Divine Message in our own day.  The voice is One Voice bringing the eternal message, in each era, and in the utterance of the same spirit, courting that which is divine in man.  Knowledge of this is the keynote to the revelation of Bahá'u'lláh.  That perception makes unity possible between men and religions and nations.  Therefore it is of supreme importance that there should be understanding on this point; because it will put an end to religious, political, racial and industrial warfare.  Only lack of understanding makes such tragedy possible, for the beginning and ending of all prophetic aspiration is to promote unity and harmony amongst mankind.  This has been God's aim and purpose throughout the ages.  It is the Heavenly Father's work, to which Jesus referred when he said:  "My father worketh until now, and I work."  Yes, and even again, "until now".  For is not the spirit of the Father Himself evident in the revelation of Bahá'u'lláh which has called all the sovereigns of the earth and all men and nations, in the name of God, to the divine banquet of universal peace?  How could the Father's heart be content with less than universal peace?  Peace for the different followers of different religions, since the founders of each have, through the inspiration of the same spirit, been one with Him, each doing the work of preparation essential to the summing up of all aspiration in the glad work of this Latter Day, when all are now called by the same Lord, the Lord of all these hosts, to recognize Him, and leaving all things contrary to Him to "follow that which tends to harmony".  For the fundamental teaching of the Founders of all religions, is one.  Therefore, no one is called upon to reject his own religion, but to recognize the same Spirit in all, that all may become one in heart and mind in this new day, looking to the same point of guidance.
Without Divine Guidance the rich values which await mankind cannot come for is there not, as St. Paul pointed out, a spiritual, as well as a natural law?  And has it not therefore been promised in the name of God, that if mankind will believe in Him and co-operate with It, seeking first His kingdom before all else "The windows of heaven will open and shower upon him blessings beyond all that he can think or speak?"
Therefore Bahá'ís rejoice in the glad tidings which Bahá'u'lláh brings to the world today, and invite all the world to rejoice with them, studying the laws which he declares as necessary to the happiness and protection of all nations, and to the fullness of life, which Jesus promised in "abundance", to all men.  The universal divine laws have been stated in Bahá'í writings many times, and will be reiterated throughout the world until they are established in the hearts of mankind beyond all forgetfulness, and their portent evident before all eyes.  Therefore, until they are known to all, repetition and remembrance is our "daily bread" in the spiritual world even as the wheaten bread is in the material world.  All the world therefore is invited in the
page 51
name of Bahá'u'lláh to co-operate in establishing the bountiful laws of righteousness which the Holy Spirit has promulgated through him.  No one can study them without becoming aware that the divine spirit is at work and all can work with It, to bring about the time when warfare will be at an end and all men and nations will live together in harmony, as brothers in the Father's heavenly Kingdom.
That is what Jesus yearned for; and it has been the travail of the Father's Spirit.  "I am the Vine, and My Father is the Husbandman," said Jesus.  He finished his appointed work.  Today, he whom Jesus promised, has come, telling us those "other things", which he could not tell us then because the world was not ready for them.  Now it is so ready that it is longing to hear them.  Let us therefore pray and labour to convey the glad tidings understandingly, that there may be no more persecutions through misunderstanding.
Looking back through history, we see there was much work for the Spirit to do after Jesus left the earthly abode.  So also is there much work for the disciples of Bahá'u'lláh.  And we are grateful for the Centre of his Covenant among the nations, which he has appointed in accordance with divine prophecy.  For we are through the living example and precept of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, protected from the errors and misunderstandings to which Christianity was liable in its early days, and which have grown to such a degree that even leaders and teachers of religion are troubled to find so little resemblance in it to the living spirit and example of Jesus.  It is above all things necessary therefore, in this important Day of God which is the outcome of previous revelation that we should abide in the Spirit and pray for divine grace to live in accordance with it.  That we should live and work and pray harmoniously, in Spirit and in Truth; each individual before all else looking to the guidance of the Spirit-and turning not aside for any other guidance.  For the Spirit is the life of us all.  Without It, there is no life, no love, no harmony or heavenly joy.  It is incumbent on us all, now, to manifest these evidences of reality before the world, as the very early disciples did endeavour to do.  We are grateful for all the records of our faith, but learning the lessons of the past it would seem well to remember that it is the Spirit which "maketh alive".
Therefore we gird our loins, rejoicing in the power of the Spirit through which many new sciences and arts and wonderful means of travel and unification have been developed, which, without spiritual power, could never have become manifest.  It is our charge, and privilege and responsibility, now they are developed through the divine Will for a special purpose, to do our part in establishing those principles of universal righteousness which, although well known to Bahá'ís, are not yet known to the world, lest this increase of human power should be used for destroying the happiness of mankind instead of promoting it.
So we announce to the world continuously those universal principles which Bahá'u'lláh has declared to be the will of God for this day, that all men and nations may move consciously together under the protection of the Divine Bounty toward the haven of peace and rest which is God's design for them and indeed their own heart's desire.  They are:
1.  The Oneness of Mankind.
2.  Independent Investigation of Truth.
3.  The Oneness of the Foundation of all Religions.
4.  Religion must be the cause of Unity.
5.  Religion must be in accord with Science and Reason.
6.  Equality between men and women.
7.  Prejudices of all kinds must be forgotten.
8.  Universal Peace.
9.  Universal Education.
page 52
10.  Solution of the Economic Problem.
11.  An International Auxiliary Language.
12.  An International Tribunal.
Bahá'ís want all the world to see the light of the Sun of Truth which illumines the path to the most great peace; so we hold up the light, knowing that the "spirit which God has placed within" all men will enable them to see it.  Then they will help us to make known the guidance which is so peculiarly necessary to the salvation of men and nations.  Without this larger all-embracing aim individual salvation is insecure.
Unity is the order of this new day.  All that does not bear its test will be cast aside, and the reason so many in church and state are now anxious to attain unity is that they well know that the world of humanity will no longer accept anything short of reality.  It is tired of trusting the blind leaders of the blind who ever prescribe their own conflicting remedies.  But when the True Remedy comes to them they will see its all-inclusiveness, and be satisfied.
Unity can never be achieved on the narrowing basis of the minds of men.  For some repudiate one religion, and some another, and others seeing this, repudiate religion altogether.  It is God's Messenger who brings us the True Remedy in its completeness today.  Without it unity cannot be achieved, for it is necessarily the outcome of the aspirations of past ages and the purport of ages to come.


XIV:2, May 1923
page 60
The true spiritual teacher
[Quotations available in the Writings omitted.]
page 61
"Normal spiritual joy has a healing effect upon the body.  I can conceive of no greater joy than teaching the Cause of God.  When an individual forgets himself entirely, is sincerely self-sacrificing, loses himself in the sea of the love of the Blessed Perfection, fulfils the conditions of servitude, and has won the good-pleasure of the Lord of Hosts his joy will then be unceasing and his happiness a flowing stream of crystal water.  A Bahá'í who serves others is like unto a candle which burns and sheds light upon all those who circle around it.  The highest attainable station of the candle is to burn and brighten the dark room, and the loftiest pinnacle of our progress and perfection is to be confirmed in service to the Holy Threshold.  This is indeed the most exalted position.  But what do I mean by servitude to the Holy Threshold?  I mean this, that with radiant faces, detached hearts, cheerful spirits, sanctified souls, illumined minds and unyielding determination we may arise and teach the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.  It is well to bear in mind in all our waking hours that he did not educate us for corporeal joy, material comfort nor the physical benefits of this mortal world.  He accepted all persecutions and hardships; and chose us for the illumination of the world of humanity, for the moral and religious education of the races, for the spiritual awakening of the people."
"The believers must teach the Cause not only in words but must adorn themselves with the ornaments of deeds in order that all mankind may bear testimony to this, that their aims are universal, their actions disinterested, their purposes inspiring and all-embracing, so that they may witness in their behaviour and manner the holiness, purity, sincerity and loving kindness of the prophets of God ...  Tell them to read carefully the Persian and Arabic Hidden Words and to live and behave according to their contents.  If a person lives for one day according to those divine exhortations and teachings he will be assisted to move the visible and the invisible world."
"Teach the Cause of God through your deeds and actions.  This is God's real benediction and blessing.  Live in such a way that when people observe your manners, morals and conduct they may exclaim, 'These are not men and women, but angels of the Lord.'  Be ye kind to all mankind.  Let mercy be the motive power in your dealings with people.  Do not look at their shortcomings.  Win the hearts through love and charity; set them aglow with the fire of the love of God.  The joy of a soul is indescribable, if the fragrances of spirituality waft from the garden of his being.  This divine happiness is not followed by any sorrow nor is this heavenly spring ended by the sultry days of summer."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  recorded by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb during the great war.
__________
"Praise be to God!  Your hearts are overflowing with the love of God and you have no great attachment to this world.  The thing which is necessary now for you is discourse.  It is my hope that you will obtain ... eloquent, expressive and excellent discourse."
"Rest assured in the fact that the breaths of the Holy Spirit will aid you provided no doubts obtain in your heart."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  from Diary of Juliet Thompson.


XIV:3, June 1923
page 69
Fifteenth Annual American Bahá'í Convention
Louise G. Gregory
[Extracts of talks by Jináb-i-Fádil-i-Mázindarání.  Interpreted by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.]
In 'Akká there lived a man who so hated 'Abdu'l-Bahá that he would turn his back when he met him, fearing lest he lose his hatred.  One day they met in such a narrow street that the enemy was forced to meet 'Abdu'l-Bahá face to face.  'Abdu'l-Bahá tapped the man upon the shoulder and said, "Wait a few moments, until I speak.  However great may be your hatred for me it can never be as strong as is my love for you."  The man was startled, awakened, and made to feel the unconquerable power of love.  Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá through this power have been able to transform thousands who are messengers of the Kingdom of God in this day.
A woman went to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, received his teachings and blessings, and asked for a special work. 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "Spread the law of love.  Live in accord with love, reciprocity and co-operation."
She answered, "I want something special.  All Bahá'ís are asked to do this."
'Abdu'l-Bahá answered, "Very well.  Come tomorrow morning, when you are about to leave, and I will give you the special work."
She was very happy all that day and night, in anticipation.
The next day 'Abdu'l-Bahá said to her, "I am going to give you my son that you may educate him physically, mentally and spiritually."
She was surprised, and was made happy at this.  But her surprise gave way to wonder when she reflected that 'Abdu'l-Bahá had no son.  What could he mean?
page 70
'Abdu'l-Bahá asked, "Do you know this son of mine?"
Then he told her:  In her city there had lived a man, her worst enemy.  He had died leaving a son, with no one to take care of him:  this was now her task.  When she heard this she was overwhelmed.  She was spiritually reborn.  She wept and said, "My Master, I now know what the Bahá'í Cause means."
...
page 73
...
Children's meeting
... His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá repeatedly spoke of the education of children and how parents should continually put into their minds ideas of peace and righteousness.  He was an ardent lover of children and took with him wherever he went a photograph of children.  He likened them to young bushes in a garden of roses.  If the young trees are cared for they grow straight; if neglected, they become crooked.  If a person is allowed to grow up aslant or crooked like a young tree, no human power can make it straight:  only the power of the Holy Spirit can change such a person.  In the Orient the meetings of the Bahá'í children are a source of inspiration and happiness to the adults.  Their gatherings are of intense interest to everyone for they have a charm of love, simplicity and happiness not to be found elsewhere.
'Abdu'l-Bahá tells us that from the very beginning children must be taught lessons of spirituality and morality.  He tells us that we must teach the children, in their childhood, only those things which will strengthen their childhood in simplicity of life.  The children memorize the wonderful lessons, compilations and recitations with the utmost love and devotion.
There was a family in Persia where the husband, but not the wife, was a Bahá'í.  Their little daughter went with her father to the meetings and sat night after night, all attention.  Her father asked me if I would like to know the result.  I answered yes.  He told me that the little girl was repeating, like a phonograph, to her mother, all that I said.  Later the father reported to me that his wife had become a Bahá'í, taught by her little daughter.
One day I saw a little girl going to school.
"You, so little, going to school?" I inquired.
"Have you not heard," she answered, "that it is necessary to study science, literature and arts?"
Then she quoted wonderfully the words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  I asked her.  "What is a Bahá'í?
She answered:  "A Bahá'í is a collec-
page 74
tive centre of all the qualities and perfections of the world of humanity."
These remarks caused me to wonder at the power of a movement which made this little girl a dynamo of knowledge.  Let us also remember the words of Christ about the children.  This is a glorious age, when all these heavenly aims and principles will be fulfilled.  How great will be the station of these little children in the Abhá Kingdom, so mighty and universal.  Let us teach the children-but let us, first, teach ourselves so that the future ages will be full of light, of new hope and new accomplishment.
...
page 76
...
How easy it is to mention the principle of oneness, yet how difficult to fulfil its gigantic task!  From time immemorial this ideal has been felt that all the children of men should be one.  The poets of the past have sung this song and many gems in literature and philosophy contain the dream of oneness.  The great poet of Persia, Sa'dí, wrote a very comprehensive poem on this subject.  The children of men are indeed one body for originally they were created from the same substance.  When one member feels pain and suffering all the other members suffer.  Spiritual ideals of oneness have descended to us as a heritage and there is no doubt that the day will come when hate is forgotten and love is enthroned.  The great creational law of the Almighty is the greatest proof that humanity is one.  Man is created physically, mentally, spiritually according to the same general pattern.  In the world of creation God has placed no difference.  The same breezes blow upon all.  The same rain falls on the just and the unjust.  The same good gifts are shared by all the people of the world.  There are certain natural differences between the kingdoms of existence, but all these differences only add to the charm and beauty of nature.  How charming and delightful to see diversity amongst the beings!  Differences in the natural world are only stepping stones of progress and happiness.
On the other hand, some differences are not natural.  They are the creatures of superstition.  How unfortunate it is that racial prejudices have affected the realm of humanity!  Religious prejudices are the children of hatred and fanaticism.  Religion in reality is the cause of love.  Differences growing out of religion are man made.  They are swords placed in our hands by the demon of hate, so that we may kill our own children.  Is there any doubt that the founders of religion came to establish love and unity among the sons of men?  Yet the followers of religions today think that these Prophets were generals, issuing orders of discord and destruction.  Look at the animal world.  Amid domestic animals of the same kind no prejudices are found.  But man, who thinks himself the friend and child of God, shows prejudices that put the animal to shame.  Bring together a number of cows from different countries and they would not harm each other.  They would graze together in the same pasture and raise no objection to each other.  But how often does the inhumanity of man in this enlightened century make man unhappy!  Such conduct is due to greed, selfishness and ambition.
Once 'Abdu'l-Bahá, to illustrate this point, told the story of a fat mullá who was praying in a mosque in one of the Oriental cities.  A man who saw him and who had some money promised a nearby beggar a pound if he would slap the neck of the mullá.  The beggar took the pound and nave the mullá a slap on the neck, then offered excuses, claiming mistaken identity.  The mullá accepted the excuse and returned to prayer.  The man gave the beggar another pound and
page 77
the beggar gave the mullá another slap, again excusing himself.  Another pound resulted in still another slap.  The mullá became very angry, declined to accept any more excuses, and demanded of the beggar why he thus pursued him with insults.  The beggar replied, "Just as long as you have that fat neck and that man has money, so long will I mete out to you this chastisement!"
Even so, as long as we have greed, hatred, superstitions and imaginations in our hearts we shall have wars and be far removed from the millennium.  We are in need of a supernatural power to change the hearts of men.  That power was given by Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Movement.  Since the appearance of this divine Cause in Persia many years ago its influence has spread far and wide banishing hatred and strife from humanity.  It creates a spiritual unity in the hearts of men.  In order that this unity might spread through the world twenty thousand people gave up their lives joyfully.  This divine revelation is so powerful that it has united Orientals and Occidentals to such [an] extent that they are willing to give up their lives for one another.  This is the century of light through the spiritual Bounty.  The drawing together of races and religions is realized.  The flag of universal peace will be raised from the apex of the world.  The oneness of the world will reveal mankind as the stars of one heaven, the leaves of one tree and the voices in one melody of Celestial music.
...
page 79
...
We have had during the last few days many divine meetings and many spiritual gatherings.  Day after day and night after night our ears have been attuned to the melodies and the dreams of the coming of this new age-a Temple where all the religions of the world may worship, the oneness of the world of humanity, a universal auxiliary language, a day when universal brotherhood is enthroned in the hearts.
When a person hears these principles he is delighted; but then he will often say, "Utopian!  Very beautiful, but impossible!  Do you not see the world surrounded by darkness."  Sceptics think such a plan wholly impractical.
But there is nothing on the face of the earth which is impossible for man to accomplish.  Many are the diseases attacking the body politic; but they will all vanish under the treatment of a skilful physician.  See the advancement of use-
page 80
ful science, and how this has happened in the face of things seemingly impossible!  Who a short time ago could have imagined the wonders of electricity or the evolution of the air-ship?  Our children and grandchildren will see and enjoy much that we now fail to realize.
Our aims are very high, our hearts are full of hope, our steps are firm, our resolution is unshakeable; and we will work and we will labour and we will make the supreme effort and all our hopes will be fulfilled.  Does it matter if we do not see the realization of our dreams?  Future generations, our grandchildren will see it.
An old man was once seen planting a tree, the story goes.  He was asked why did he thus, as he could not live to enjoy the shade and fruit of these trees.  He replied that his ancestors had provided for him and now he must in turn provide for posterity.
Then Jináb-i-Fádil showed through a brilliant analysis the underlying unity of all the world religions.  They all teach according to the needs and capacities of the students of their day the existence of God, the immortality of the soul, the Golden Rule, the same great principles of ethics, morality and unity.  In highly figurative and symbolic form they portray the genesis, the creation of the world.  When we study and behold the unity in religions the work of uniting them seems much easier.  Jináb-i-Fádil then illustrated from his own experience the marvellous power of the Bahá'í Teachings to unite diverse religions.  He told of how he had seen Jewish Bahá'ís, Muslim Bahá'ís, Christian Bahá'ís all meeting together in the utmost love and unity.  When mankind partakes of universal religion unity will be established in the hearts.


XIV:3, June 1923
page 87
Soul stirring words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Tablet recently translated by Shoghi Effendi.
O ye beloved of the Lord!  O ye His trusted ones!
Know ye verily that the denizens of the Realm on High, the dwellers in the habitations of Glory, laud and glorify the company of the faithful on earth, who raise their voice with one accord and sing the praise of the Lord and magnify His holy Name.  Exalted be the Lord, my God, the All-Glorious!  I swear by the Beauty of His Face, by the Light of His Countenance, by the Dayspring of Glory:  were earthly gatherings to walk in the ways of the company of the Immortals on High, they would surely mirror forth, in all their beauty, the splendours of the Celestial Concourse, and unfold the mysteries of the Abhá Kingdom.  The greater their purity, the greater their reflected splendour.
Wherefore, let us arise, let us bestir ourselves, let us rally round the Standard of the One True God, and gather together under the shadow of the Lord's Sacred Tree, the Tree that hath voiced
page 88
the Call of God and uttered the Word of Truth.  This is indeed, in the eyes of the Lord, your God, the Gracious, a supreme and glorious triumph.
Should the Spirit of true Love permeate the assemblies of men on earth, they, verily, will grow to become a string of heavenly pearls, a guiding constellation that sheddeth its glory and radiance over all mankind.
The Glory of God, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, rest upon you.


XIV:3, June 1923
page 89
The spirit of the century
Letter of Shoghi Effendi to the friends of Montclair, New Jersey.
In these days, when internal commotions are shaking the very foundations of men's beliefs, and the flames of distress are purging humanity from its ills and maladies, it behoves us, the loved ones of God, to stand steadfastly amid this world-tumult, and with the Divine Teachings exemplified in our lives, restore gradually peace, assurance and tranquillity to the distracted world.  For unless the saving Power of the Word of God comes to their aid, peoples and sects, classes and governments, entangled in the mesh of their own undoing, shall fall a prey to one another's greed and passion, and in the end deplorably perish.
But this is not to be, for we are assured that the Divine Will has ordained that from this raging turmoil shall emerge a world purer and better illumined with the Light of the Divine Revelation, and guided by the principles of the Most Great Peace!
Ours, then, is the duty and privilege to labour with heart and soul for the re-birth of mankind, and hasten the advent of the Promised Day.


XIV:4, July 1923
page 97
Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The time has arrived for the world of humanity to hoist the standard of the oneness of the human world, so that solidarity and unity may bind together all the nations of the world, so that dogmatic formulas and superstitions may end, so that the essential reality underlying all the religions founded by the Prophets may be revealed.
That reality is one.
It is the love of God, the progress of the world, the oneness of humanity.
That reality is the bond which can unite all the human race.
That reality is the attainment of the benefits of the most great peace, the discarding of warfare.
That reality is progressiveness, the undertaking of the colossal tasks in life, the oneness of public opinion.
Therefore strive, O ye people! and put forth your efforts, that this reality may overcome the lesser forces in life, that this king of reality may alone rule all humanity.
Thus may the world of mankind be reformed.  Thus may a new springtime be ushered in and a fresh spirit may resuscitate mankind.
The individuals of humanity, like refreshed plants, will put forth leaves and blossoms and fruit, so that the face of the earth will become the long promised and delectable paradise, so that the great bestowal, the supreme virtues of man will glisten over the face of the earth.  Then shall the world of existence have attained maturity.
This is my message.


XIV:4, July 1923
page 101
The proof of God's existence
The Divine Philosophy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Science has discovered a new universe.  Its great stars, most of which are suns, according to new measurements are often found to be millions of miles in diameter, separated from us and from each other by bewildering stretches of light years of a vastness which baffles all attempts at comprehension.  Our little earth, with all its teeming life, is but a speck in this splendid immensity.  Modern science reveals a universe ordered by laws so invariable that astronomers can prophecy an eclipse generations before it appears on the field of vision.  The atom, according to the new physics, is itself a little solar system and reveals in miniature the order of the great cosmos.
To many the very immensity and orderliness, the mechanistic perfection of the physical universe make the thought of God unnecessary.  Thus, while science is revealing new universes and through the practical application of the discoveries of physics, chemistry, biology and preventive medicine is bringing in a new, material civilization the most resplendent which the world has seen, it is at the same time undermining for many the foundations of religious faith and the historic sanctions for the good life.
The conflict between science and religion is carried forward, in pulpit, in press, in university hall.  What is to be done?
The Bahá'í Teachings present to our modern world the great harmonizing, synthesizing, uniting force, scientific and spiritual, for which we have been waiting.  'Abdu'l-Bahá proves the whole vast universe which science has discovered to be a new revelation of the existence and activity of God, the Ever-Living, the Omnipotent Mind, the Pure Creator.
Both science and religion are from the one Sun of Reality.  When truly understood, together they flood the world with light upon light.
In his great Tablet to the distinguished scientific scholar of Switzerland Professor Auguste Henri Forel, 'Abdu'l-Bahá with triumphant scientific, spiritual logic proves the existence of God and the reality of the spirit. ...  The Star of the West feels ... through earnest study of this ... great Tablet the student can grow more and more into an understanding of the magnificent philosophy of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the scientific proofs of God's existence.


XIV:4, July 1923
page 109
The eternal witness
Compiled by Horace Holley.
"This teaching of union has been lost in the world through long lapse of time, O consumer of the foe.
"This same immemorial teaching of union I have declared to thee today; for thou art my beloved, my companion; and this secret doctrine is the most excellent treasure.
"Though I am the Unborn, the Soul that passes not away; though I am the Lord of beings, yet as Lord over my Nature I become manifest, through the magical power of the Soul.
"For whenever there is a withering of the Law, O son of Bharata, and an uprising of lawlessness on all sides, then I manifest Myself.
"For the salvation of the righteous, and the destruction of such as do evil; for the firm establishing of the Law I come to birth in age after age."-Krishna.
"Why should I preserve this body of flesh, when the body of the excellent law will endure?
"I am not the first Buddha who came upon the earth, nor shall I be the last.  In due time another Buddha will arise in the world, a Holy One, a supremely enlightened One, endowed with wisdom in conduct, knowing the universe, an incomparable leader of men, a Master of angels and mortals.  He will reveal to you the same truths which I have taught you.  He will preach his religion, glorious in its origin, glorious at its climax, glorious at its goal, in the spirit and in the letter.  He will proclaim a religious life, wholly perfect and pure, such as I now proclaim.  His disciples will number many thousands, while mine number many hundreds."-Guatama Buddha.
"There is a Creative Principle which is itself uncreated; there is a Principle of Change which is itself unchanging.  The Uncreated is able to create life; the Unchanging is able to effect change.  That which is produced cannot but continue producing; that which is evolved cannot but continue evolving.  Hence there is constant production and constant evolution.
"The Unchanging goes to and fro, and its range is illimitable.  We may surmise that it stands Alone, and that its Ways are inexhaustible."-Lao Tzu.
"When through Me the sky arose from the substance of the ruby, without columns, on the spiritual support of far-encompassed light; when through Me the earth arose, which bore the material life, and there is no maintainer of the worldly creation but it; when by Me the sun and moon and stars are conducted in the firmament of luminous bodies; ... each one of them, when created by Me, was herein more difficult than causing the resurrection, for it is an assistance to Me in the resurrection that they exist, but when they were formed it was not forming the future out of the past."-Zoroaster.
page 110
"The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose.  It shall blossom abundantly and rejoice even with joy and singing; the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it; the glory (Bahá) of Carmel and Sharon.  They shall see the excellency of the Lord and the glory (Bahá) of our God."-Isaiah.
"Think not that I came to destroy the law or the prophets:  I came not to destroy, but to fulfil.
"In my Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you.  And if I go and prepare a place for you, I come again, and will receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.
"The words I say unto you I speak not from myself:  but the Father abiding in me doeth his works.
"And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth."
"But of that day or that hour knoweth no one, not even the angels in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father."-Christ.
"Messengers have already come unto you before me, with plain proofs and with the miracle which ye mention; why, therefore, have ye slain them, if ye speak truth? ...  I am the first Adam, Noah, Moses and Jesus.
"Think then not indeed that God fails in His promise to His apostles; verily, God is mighty, the Lord of vengeance; on the day when the earth shall be changed for another earth, and the heavens also; and all shall go forth unto God, the One, the Supreme.
"God is the light of heaven and earth the similitude of His light is a niche in a wall, wherein a lamp is placed, and the lamp enclosed in a case of glass; the glass appears as if it were a glistening star.  It is lighted with the oil of a blessed tree, an olive neither of the East, nor of the West; it wanteth little but that the oil thereof would give light, although no fire toucheth it.  This is light added unto light.  God will direct unto His light whom He pleaseth."-Muhammad.
"Exalted and glorified is He above the power of any one to reveal Him except Himself, or the description of any of His creatures.  I Myself am but the first servant to believe in Him and in His signs, and to partake of the sweet savours of His words from the first-fruits of the Paradise of His knowledge."
"In the year nine ye will attain unto all good."-Báb.1
"The time of former things is past and a new time has become manifest, and all things are made new by the desire of God.  But only a new eye can perceive and a new mind can comprehend this station.  The Beginning and the End bore allusion to one blessed Word, and that hath come and is made manifest.  That Word is the Soul of the divine books and epistles, which hath been and will be forevermore.
"In this Day the new heaven hath appeared and the earth is renewed.  Were ye to behold with pure eyes, ye will see the New Jerusalem; and were ye to turn with attentive ears, ye will hear the voice of God.
"Are ye hidden from Myself because of My Name?  What maketh ye to doubt?  Ye have called for your Lord the self-dependent night and day, and when He hath come from the heaven of pre-existence in the greatest glory, ye have not approached Him, and were of the heedless.
"He who inviteth the people in My Name, he is of Me, and from him will appear that which will be beyond the power of all that is in the earth.  Then follow the path of the Lord, and follow not the heedless.  Blessed is the sleeping one who will awaken by these powers and will stand up among the dead, directing himself in the path of the Lord; verily, he is of the essence of the creatures before the True One; and verify, he is of those who have attained."-Bahá'u'lláh.
"Each religion teaches that a media-
page 111
tor is necessary between man and the Creator-one who receives the full light of the divine splendour and radiates it over the human world, as the earth's atmosphere receives and diffuses the warmth of the rays of the sun.  This mediator between God and humanity has different designations, though he always brings the same spiritual commands.  In one era he is called Abraham, in another time Moses, again he is called Buddha, another time Jesus, and yet another time Muhammad.  They have all turned to the divine reality for their strength.  Those who followed Moses accepted him as the mediator; those who followed Zoroaster accepted him as their mediator; but all the Jews deny Zoroaster, and the Zoroastrians deny Moses.  They fail to see in both the one reality.  Had the Zoroastrians comprehended the reality of Zoroaster, they would have understood Moses and Jesus.  Alas! the majority of men attach themselves to the name of the mediator and lose sight of the real purport.
"Therefore did Bahá'u'lláh cry, 'O God, deliver us from the sea of names!'  "Man must turn to the light and not think that the form of the lamp is the essential, for the lamp may be changed; but he who longs for light welcomes it from whatever lamp it shines.  If the Jews had really understood Moses, they would have accepted the Christ; but they were occupied with the name, not the truth, and when that name was changed, they denied the reality.
"It is the same with the Christians today.  What a pity that they are worshipping a title.  They see only the garment.  If one recognizes a king by his garments, one would not know him were he to assume a different garb.
"Who is the Christ?  When one sees the Christ qualities shining from another lamp, one must recognize that light.  We may say that this flower is exquisite; we must not say that it is the only beautiful one.  Its perfections are of the divine bounty, a bounty that is universal and unlimited in its manifestations.  The marvellous bounties of God are continuous.  Should the outpouring of light be suspended, we would be in darkness.  But how could it be withheld?  If the divine graces are suspended, then divinity itself would be interrupted.  Even men ask for continuity.
"We have eyes, and we desire eternal sight.  Blindness is an imperfection.  We have ears; deafness is a deficiency.  As long as we consider these as imperfections in the human world, will they not be even greater defects when we consider the divine world?  The bounty of God is without beginning and without end.
"We must adore the Sun of Reality, no matter from what horizon it may appear, rather than worship the horizon; for if we concentrate our attention upon one horizon, the Sun may arise from quite another point, and we consequently be deprived of the Sun's bestowals.  These benefactions are the bounty and guidance of God, the favour of God.  This is spiritual progress."-'Abdu'l-Bahá.


XIV:4, July 1923
page 116
The coming universal society of nations
[Extracts]
The supreme foundation of the city of the most great peace will, however, be unity of conscience among all people, a deep consciousness that they are all one family, one brotherhood.  To strengthen this consciousness, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, suggests that there should be universal education of the children of all nations, under a uniform educational curriculum.  This curriculum would include the technical, scientific branches of material education, and it will continually train the children to realize the perils of war and the glory of peace.  "You must sow the seeds of peace in the plastic minds of the children," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "Teach them the victories of peace.  Surround them with the lessons of peace.  Envelop them with the atmosphere of peace and inspire their hearts with the glorious achievements of peace.  Let their food be peace, their vesture peace, their contemplation peace, their highest aspiration peace and the impelling purpose of their lives peace."  The new education in the oneness of mankind will need to utilize every means to establish in the hearts of the children the consciousness of universal brotherhood.
'Abdu'l-Bahá also presents a solution of the economic problem by which poverty can be practically eliminated and economic strife resolved into co-operation and partnership, without violence, without changing the existing economic structure.
But the supreme power which changes the hearts of men and unites them into one brotherhood is religion.  "Only through the power of the Holy Spirit," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "will the cause of universal peace be established in the world.  There must needs be a divine, executive power to bring the self-seeking governments to the terms of universal brotherhood and conciliation.  Nothing else will do it."
"Not until the cause of universal peace becomes a personal religious conviction," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, to some friends at Haifa, in June of 1919, "will it prove to be permanent.  Diplomacy is impotent; the all-powerful Word of God must establish it and make it a living, potent and lasting factor in the world.  Hearts must be purified and no trace of revenge, enmity and rancour must linger in any heart-until peace shall prove to be permanent."-M. H. P.


XIV:4, July 1923
page 118
A portrait of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Story by the artist, Mr F. Carl Smith.
[Presented in an article by Nellie S. French.  At that time the portrait was owned by Mrs H. Collins, Pasadena.]
"It has always remained a mystery to me how it came to pass that it was my special privilege to see and meet for the first time, in my own home, that universally known, that great spiritual soul, 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
"I had heard a great deal about Bahá'u'lláh and his son, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, through friends years ago in Paris, and afterwards in Washington, D.C.  Mr Charles Mason Remey, who had made a pilgrimage to 'Akká, Syria, on his return had spoken of 'the Master's wonderful teachings and especially of the great light which shows in his eyes and upon which one could not gaze without feeling a sensation as of almost dazzling luminosity.'
"It was my good fortune to take the Mediterranean cruise in 1911, which included a visit to the Holy Land.  While at Haifa, Syria, I thought of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and wondered just where he might be, for 'Akká, the City of the Crusaders, lay some nine miles to the north of Haifa along the coast, 'by the way of the sea', and could be plainly seen in the distance.  As we remained only one day in Haifa it was not possible to take the caravan trip to 'Akká (the Achor of the Bible), so I spent the day in climbing Mount Carmel and making a sketch of it from the coast.
"Haifa became the home of the Master shortly after that time, and
page 119
since the war that part of the country is now included in Palestine.
"About a year later 'Abdu'l-Bahá came to America, and while he was in Washington, D.C., he made his headquarters at the home of Mr and Mrs Parsons, where he was a guest for some weeks.  The home of Mr and Mrs Parsons was about two blocks from my studio.  I was intensely eager to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá and I asked his interpreter if it were possible to paint a portrait of him, but he replied that there would not be time.
"On the morning of 12 April, shortly after his arrival in Washington, I received word that 'Abdu'l-Bahá and his interpreters would stop at my studio, but only for a few minutes.  I immediately prepared a canvas and had everything in readiness in case there might be prospects of a pose.  However, just to see him was more than I had hoped or expected!
"All my nervous excitement passed away on seeing the Master, and my first impression was one of peace and good will, for he was like one of the family, so gentle and mild, and he showed such a kindly spirit.  His first words were:
"'It is so good to come into your home!'  He was interested in all he saw, and we immediately went into the studio where I had a chair placed for him in the proper light and asked if he would be seated.  Then the Master said:
"'Now this is as it should be.  Here am I a Persian, and you an American.  As a rule one nation despises another not of his own nationality; and here we are friends at first sight!  That is as it should be-the world one brotherhood, loving one another!'
"I immediately began to sketch him as he was interested in what I was doing.  Then I showed him a sketch of Mount Carmel, and he exclaimed:
"'My beloved Mount Carmel!  That was the view I had of it for many years in 'Akká!'
"By this time we had all forgotten our hurry and the pose lasted most of the morning.  I seemed inspired while at work and I was amazed at the results, for I never had to touch the features again after that pose.
"During the morning 'Abdu'l-Bahá spoke of his teachings and some of his words were interpreted.  He said he believed in equality between men and women and in the oneness of mankind and of religion.
"After that morning I saw a great deal of the Master, for I went frequently to the various churches where he spoke.  Also there were many gatherings at Mr and Mrs Parsons' home.  I saw him later also, after his return to Washington from his western tour.
"Never shall I forget that experience and I am so happy to have had that wonderful privilege."



XIV:4, July 1923
page 122
A letter from Shoghi Effendi
To the beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful, throughout the City of New York, USA.   Care of the members of the Spiritual Assembly.
Dear and faithful friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá!
The welcome letter which the members of your Spiritual Assembly have sent me is indeed a fresh and remarkable testimony of your wise, patient and persistent efforts to promote the Cause of God and deepen its foundations in the heart of that great city.
All throughout the various vicissitudes which the Movement has encountered during this past year of bereavement and uncertainty, the faithful lovers of the Master in New York have, by their wisdom in teaching, the range and character of their activities, their perseverance in their labours and their unity in service, proved themselves worthy of the blessings which our beloved 'Abdu'l-Bahá showered upon them during his repeated visits to their city.  It is my earnest hope and prayer that now at this decisive hour of the Cause of God the friends may with clear vision and redoubled energy endeavour to deepen still further the essential truths of the Cause in their own lives, and then extend the sphere of their activity, endeavouring at all times to infuse the regenerating Spirit of Bahá'u'lláh into the divers communities, creeds and classes that are represented in that most cosmopolitan city of the American continent.
From the leaflets, the circular letter and the pamphlet enclosed in the letter of your Spiritual Assembly, I can see clearly how well you have undertaken the task of acquainting the intellectual and religious circles of your city with the Divine Teachings, how admirably you have co-ordinated your efforts for service and how beautifully you have immortalized the memory of the Beloved's sojourn in your midst.
As I have already intimated in my first letter to the National Spiritual Assembly, I shall be most pleased to receive from every Bahá'í centre throughout America regular and comprehensive reports on the position of the Cause and the activity of the friends.  These I shall gladly transmit to the friends throughout the East, who in their present hour of restlessness and turmoil will, I am sure, be cheered to hear of the steady and peaceful growth of the Cause in your land.  I have already shared the news you have conveyed to me with the resident friends in the Holy Land, and shall soon, by the aid of the Spiritual Assembly of Haifa, send them to the believers throughout the East.
Our departed Master, whose Call first awakened that city, who later visited it and with his own hands watered its soil, and who to his last hour bestowed his tenderest care upon it, is now, as ever before, watching from his Station on High the progress of the work which he has entrusted to you, his beloved children, ready to bless, guide and strengthen you in your efforts to achieve success for his Cause.
page 123
Awaiting your joyful news, and wishing you from all my heart the highest success in all your endeavours,
I am your devoted brother,
(Signed) SHOGHI.
Haifa, Palestine,
3 February 1923.


XIV:5, August 1923
page 129
Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
The spirit of the age demands the establishment of universal peace.  No power on earth can stand before it.  God has purposed that peace must reign in this age, and it will come to pass.  Let the advocates of peace work with greater zeal and courage for the Lord of Hosts is their supporter.
In this radiant century and merciful age the ears are open, hearts awakened, eyes seeing, consciences stirred.
The age of estrangement has passed.  The century of friendship has arrived.  The dark hours have disappeared and the Orb of Unity has dawned.  Now is the time to be illumined with the rays of the sun of the solidarity of the human race.  This is the hour of self-sacrifice for the good of humanity.
__________
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The Sun of Universal Love hath dawned.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The banquet of friendship and divine association is spread.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The banner of the Kingdom of God is unfurled.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The heavenly spring hath appeared.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The cloud of Spiritual Grace is pouring down.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The trees of the orchard of humanity are verdant and a'bloom.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The Herald of the Kingdom hath become manifest.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The prophecies of the Holy Books have become fulfilled.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The age of human brotherhood is dawning upon mankind.
Glad Tidings!  Glad Tidings!  The century of light and universal peace hath come.


XIV:5, August 1923
page 131
Universal peace
Louis G. Gregory
Thoughts of universal peace are not new in the world.  Outstanding thinkers and philosophers of the past have mentioned it with hope.  Seers have visualized it.  Bards have sung.  Even statesmen of high rank have at times looked beyond the field of nationalism into the broader field of internationalism, with human welfare in mind.  But it has remained for the Prophets of God, with the voice of authority, to promise this happy day of the realization of universal peace.
As the world advances and people become more thoughtful, dissatisfaction with war as the solvent2 of human problems grows apace.  The a[r]bitrament of arms places right and wrong upon the same level.3  It stirs up the worst passions of human nature.  It banishes judgement.  It imbrutes4 the finer instincts of man.  It is the sum of all calamities.  War cripples commerce, impedes agriculture, lays waste cities, makes desolate homes, perverts science, suspends education, consumes wealth, vandalizes art, dethrones reason, degrades manhood, violates womanhood, deifies violence, abases morals, dispirits religion, blasphemes God.  In wartime people worship the god of hate, however sacred the name by which they invoke him.  To this idol they supplicate for confusion upon foes!  To this creature of passion they return thanks when foes are destroyed!  What has the God of love and mercy to do with all this?  The god of hate is without ruth.5  Overnight he transforms men into fiends.  People who under normal conditions are so gentle and kind that they avoid harming an ant, when war is on not only breathe out cruelty and slaughter against their fellow beings, but do not hesitate to desecrate the very sanctuary of God.  Not the least of war's ills is the arrogance of the victor and the hatred of the vanquished.  These spiritual distempers may endure for ages.
It must be conceded, however, that some good may come through warfare.  But alas!  How little is this when compared with the great good of settling the issues between nations upon the durable basis of justice, peace and arbitration!  The good that is by comparison a modicum seems mainly to arise in spite of rather than because of, the terrific slaughter of humanity.  Peace is life.  War is death.  Peace is heaven.  War is hell.  Pride, ignorance, jealousy, suspicion, fear and their ilk unite their hideous faces in the orgy of bloodshed.  How long shall these guileful imps deceive the intelligence of mankind?
In the past, numberless cases can be cited of the futility of war to right wrongs or to improve conditions.  The thirty years' war in Germany between
page 132
Catholics and Lutherans was so terrible that during this long period of suffering the population of that country was reduced from thirty million to five million souls.  As fully five-sixths of the population was destroyed during this carnage, it is interesting to note the result.  At the end of this bitter struggle both sides adhered to their respective faiths.  The Catholics continued to be Catholics and the Protestants remained Protestants.  The war changed no one's religion.  But how frightful was the cost of this bitter hatred which remained to vex long after t[he] destruction [of] so many people
The war of a hundred years between England and France was equally fruitless of results.  The English king was ambitious to rule France.  Under English law his succession to the throne was justified.  According to French law his right was barred.  For a time he succeeded in imposing both himself and his dynasty upon France, only to invite the continual force of opposition.  The end of a century of fighting saw the king of England confined to his own land and the king of France established upon his throne.  For through the heroism of a woman, Joan of Arc, although French law debarred a woman from reigning in France, the French dynasty was restored and the foreign invaders expelled.  Void was the effort for those who started it.
The wars between the West and East, known as the Crusades, covered more than two centuries.  Their object, on the part of the Christians, was the delivery of Jerusalem from the hands of the Muslim, who were regarded as heathen and infidels.  Seven efforts were made to conquer and hold Palestine, netting a total failure.  But the terrible acts of the invaders reflected the savagery of the dark ages, to which they belonged.  Had these ignorant people, who called themselves Christians, paused to investigate the Muslim faith, they would have discovered that the people of Islám had not only the greatest love and reverence for Christ, but in the practice of the religion which their Prophet, Muhammad taught them they had attained a civilization far superior to the people of Europe, whose religion had then lapsed into idolatry and their civilization into barbarism.  But the recent hatreds of the Cross and Crescent for each other are the heritage of those bitter memories.
The world has stood aghast at the terrific losses of the world war.6  Huge natural resources were destroyed.  A vast area was reduced to ruins and shambles.  Countless families were reduced to homelessness, beggary and starvation, about $358,000,000,000.00 in wealth and treasure was consumed, and approximately 30,000,000 lives were prematurely cut off.  After four years Europe is still on the verge of collapse and the whole world still feels the effects of war.  One of the delusive claims made for the war was that it would destroy militarism.  With more men now under arms in Europe than at the outbreak of the great war nine years ago, with the powers scrapping only a few of their armaments, with the preparation of poisonous gases and great fleets of destructive aeroplanes, this aim is far from being realized.  But perhaps we have now dwelt long enough with shadows to prove that force and violence accomplish no lasting results.  Can the realm of humanity survive another war?
Let us turn to the armies of peace.  Day by day these shining ranks increase in numbers and power.  Theirs is the assurance that in the end, victory will adorn their banners.  Among the great forces mobilized in this cause is that of popular education.  The training of the masses to think for themselves and the diffusion of knowledge will become more and more a deterrent to warfare.  If the few people who bring on a war were the only ones to do the fighting, all wars would be of short duration.  It is necessary for the people to discern the motives of those who would stir up their passions and exploit their prejudices for personal and selfish ends.  The limelight of knowledge will expose these sordid interests,
page 133
which would impoverish the many to enrich the few.  The killing of a human being is at any time a most serious offence, among civilized people.  But the killing of millions, perhaps to avenge the deaths of a few, seems not only a great calamity but amazing folly.  The righteousness of peace, the criminality of war, will more and more challenge the intelligence of the world.  Especially is this appeal to the rising generation; the children in schools, the students in the universities.  Dispassionate thinking and common sense are needed to prevent a return of the horrors of the past.
Another sign of universal peace is the growing freedom and influence of women.  It is to the eternal glory of that sex that rarely in human history have they lent their powers to the killing of their fellow beings.  Their benign influence, through fine intuitions and tender hearts, is cast on the side of life and construction, peace and healing.  Happily there is now a growing tendency on the part of the governments of the world to give to women representation in their councils.  These helpers are producing from their ranks many brilliant advocates of peace.  Their logic is so incisive, their eloquence so appealing, their vision so large, that men listen to them with attention and admiration.  From among many of these peace advocates two are mentioned, representing, respectively, the East and the West.
About the middle of the last century Qurratu'l-'Ayn arose in Persia.  Through the Báb and her training as his disciple, she perceived that a new day of ideal brotherhood and peace had dawned for all humanity.  Her powers included personal charm, great natural gifts cultivated by study and a heart purified by divine love.  These she dedicated to the evangel of Truth.  She stood for the freedom of women and for the harmony of the world.  Her inspired eloquence attracted many to the standard of peace.  She travelled from city to city, suffering with serene composure every difficulty from the persecution of benighted and ignorant foes.  After years of exalted service, her life was victoriously sacrificed for the truth she espoused.  Men of many nations today are thrilled as they read of her wonderful life and character.  Today her traces are visible in every reform looking toward the elevation of women, international peace and the harmony of life.  She is easily one of the foremost characters of all time.
Another shining example of the brilliant advocate of peace is Justice Florence Allen, of the Supreme Court of Ohio.  One passing through Ohio will find the women and the wise men all behind her with their support and very proud of her.  No doubt she is destined for even greater honours than those to which merit has already called her.  Not only is she a great jurist, but she shows the powers of an international statesman of the highest rank.  Nor is the womanly sweetness lacking withal.  Her arguments for international peace are so noted for sound logic, array of facts, choice diction, power of analysis, nobility of purpose and moral enthusiasm as to be rarely equalled in the arena of discussion.  After this remarkable young woman has spoken, the impression of her hearers is that naught remains to be said.  It is inconceivable that an advocate of war can answer her arguments.  These are signs that the ranks of women, increasing in potency, are marching toward peace.  When they once highly resolve, who can impede their progress?
A third division of the army of peace is the working people of the nations.  The farmers in the rural districts and the industrial workers in cities have discovered a common interest.  This bond of unity is being extended so as to include the labourers and farmers of all countries.  These co-operative societies are a powerful influence for peace among the nations of the earth.  It is astonishing how these co-operative societies have grown both at home and abroad.  Through co-operation they are building their own
page 134
mills, factories, banks, etc., hoping, as one of their leaders recently said, "To build a new world in which service and not greed is the mainspring of human action and in which gain without labour shall no longer exist."  As the losses of warfare are borne chiefly by the workers and those who suffer upon gory fields are likewise drawn from these classes, they naturally begin to think soberly of peace.  Perhaps their thoughts will inspire even those who in the past have exploited them, to be less eager for the gain which means spiritual loss.  It is certain that their influence will be felt.
But how can universal peace, in a rational, effective and stable way, be realized?  How can the nations keep peace?  How can the continents be peaceful?  How can the races enter a durable bond of peace?  For there must be laws as well as sentiments to maintain peace.
This is truly the greatest thought of to day.  It appeals to all noble natures.  And now comes the publicist and humanitarian, Edward W. Bok, offering a prize of $100,000 for the best essay, unfolding the most practical basis for this nation to enter into a union of durable peace with the other nations of the earth.  This is indeed one of the hopeful signs of the times.
The wise men of the world, its statesmen and philanthropists, may well at this time study the luminous text of Bahá'u'lláh and the brilliant Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, for therein they will find all their questions answered and the heavenly manna of peace offered, now as of old, "without money and without price".
First of all, there must be an improvement in the character and attainments of men selected for high positions.  Ignorance of leaders has ever been a bar-sinister to human advancement.  In public life among all the nations, there is the greatest demand for leaders who are just, noble, self-sacrificing, free from prejudices, learned in the sciences and arts, informed about both national and international affairs and having minds that expand with universal intelligence.  Such pure servants will not only work for peace, but will adopt the means provided in the Sacred Writings for the realization thereof.  The great international Tribunal which is to be the permanent foundation of peace must be a fortress of justice.  It must be more than a loose agreement among some of the nations, so that it may not when a crisis comes, as the Hague Tribunal, ingloriously fail.  It must include the representatives of all nations and be supported by all peoples.  The nations, unitedly and of one accord, must resign to it so much of their powers as will give to it executary authority, enabling it to enforce its decrees.  The majestic might of all the rulers must uphold it.  Bahá'u'lláh calls the kings to unity.  'Abdu'l-Bahá, in his wonderful volume, The secret of divine civilization, reveals the following plan:
"True civilization will unfurl its banner in the mid-most heart of the world whenever a certain number of its distinguished and high-minded sovereigns-the shining exemplars of devotion and determination-shall, for the good and happiness of all mankind, arise, with firm resolve and clear vision, to establish the Cause of Universal Peace.  They must make the Cause of Peace the object of general consultation, and seek by every means in their power to establish a Union of the nations of the world.  They must conclude a binding treaty and establish a covenant, the provisions of which shall be sound, inviolable and definite.  They must proclaim it to all the world and obtain for it the sanction of all the human race.  This supreme and noble undertaking-the real source of the peace and well-being of all the world-should be regarded as sacred by all that dwell on earth.  All the forces of humanity must be mobilized to ensure the stability and permanence of this Most Great Covenant.  In this all-embracing Pact the limits and frontiers of each and every nation should be clearly fixed, the principles underlying the relations of governments towards one another definitely laid down, and all
page 135
international agreements and obligations ascertained.  In like manner, the size of the armaments of every government should be strictly limited, for if the preparations for war and the military forces of any nation should be allowed to increase, they will arouse the suspicion of others.  The fundamental principle underlying this solemn Pact should be so fixed that if any government later violate any one of its provisions, all the governments on earth should arise to reduce it to utter submission, nay the human race as a whole should resolve, with every power at its disposal, to destroy that government.  Should this greatest of all remedies be applied to the sick body of the world, it will assuredly recover from its ills and will remain eternally safe and secure.
"Observe that if such a happy situation be forthcoming, no government would need continually to pile up the weapons of war, nor feel itself obliged to produce ever new military weapons with which to conquer the human race.  A small force for the purposes of internal security, the correction of criminal and disorderly elements and the prevention of local disturbances, would be required-no more."7
It is for the lovers of peace to consider its inner as well as outer aspects.  The universal treaty, the arbitral House of Justice and the federation of the world, however well organized, can never endure without the confirmation of the spiritual power.  Without this mystic power, man will speedily return to the depths of ignorance, vibrating upon the animal plane.  The animal plane is ever dark and selfish and heedless of the commonweal.  But the Holy Spirit rectifies human nature.  It changes the satanic works of men into angelic deeds.  It converts self-seeking into self-sacrifice.  It transforms narrowness into universality.  It creates the oneness of humanity.  It expands national love into world patriotism.
Those who follow in the footsteps of the lowly Nazarene, of whom there are still, happily, a few in the world, readily think and act human brotherhood, whether the point of contact be the native or the alien, the mighty or the weak, the learned or the ignorant.  The creative Breathings of Christ, in the early centuries of the Christian era, established unity among various races and nations, through the power of his Word.  His prayer for the descent of the Father's Kingdom is now happily realized.  The followers of Bahá'u'lláh throughout the world today are potentially the world's federation.  Through the power of the creative Word, as revealed by him, they have abandoned racial, religious and national bias.  Their ideals are pure, their sympathies are broad, their hearts are universal.  Trained by the lives and precepts of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the universal educators, they in turn strive to guide the people of the world.  Because their hearts are at peace and their spirits rejoice, they are the cause of peace and joy to others.  On every continent, amongst all races, in every religion, these people are found.  They seek to serve.  They believe in one God and one humanity.  Under the banner of Divine Love they point all mankind to the great, abiding and perfect peace.


XIV:5, August 1923
page 136
The call to the oneness of mankind
From an address by Jináb-i-Ávárih in London
In 1911-1913 His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who was the exponent of the teachings of his father, Bahá'u'lláh, travelled extensively in Europe and America.  In churches and audience halls, in America, especially, he gave long, important addresses.  These addresses were translated into many languages and were spread broadcast.  Those who saw him at that time can remember how impressive was his personality; and it may be that that sweet voice which spoke of the oneness of the world of humanity can be heard by the ears of the friends even today.
Because His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá worked in reality for the service of the world of humanity, therefore his teachings had a marked effect in each part of the world, and he left in the hearts of his loved ones, those who were affected by his teachings, a peculiar love and affection.
'Abdu'l-Bahá worked very hard for the oneness of the world of humanity.  For forty years he was imprisoned in the barracks and fortress of 'Akká, Palestine, where the climate was the worst that could be imagined.  After that, he travelled across the sea, to America and Europe.  For three years he travelled.  He gave to the world the principles of Bahá'u'lláh.
Now it is as though 'Abdu'l-Bahá speaks to us, saying, "In 1911, in 1912 and 1913 I invited you all to universal peace and to the oneness of the world of humanity.  In America, repeatedly I said, ere long the world war will appear, nay rather, my words and writings as published in papers and books exist today, in which I said, Europe has become an arsenal.  This war will break forth from one spark.  The well wishers of the world must work for universal peace; they must establish a court of universal international arbitration.  They must lay aside superstitions and limitations, so that no religious, racial superstitions, or political or patriotic prejudices exist.  The great ones of the earth should look upon mankind with a single eye, so that the world may become at peace, and may rest at ease."
The spirit of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, is calling from the worlds of the Kingdom, "O ye people of the world! has there not been enough of these wars and strifes, this restlessness and enmity?  Surely there has been enough.  How long must the innocent ones be killed in battle?  How long must mothers lament their children?  And how long must fathers cry and lament?  Is not this bloodthirsty earth yet satisfied with the blood of the youth of the world?  Must this bloodshed, and these sanguinary conditions still go on?  Will the world continue at war?
"God has created the world for all people.  O children of humanity! be kind to one another.  Do not see any strangeness in one another.  Consider this word which His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh spoke sixty years ago:  'O people of the world!  Ye are all the leaves of one tree, the fruit of one branch, the drops of one sea.'"
Perhaps, still, that melodious voice of 'Abdu'l-Bahá is sounding in the ears of those that search for the truth and who say the time for superstition has passed away, the time of illumination has come, the whole of mankind must be servants of humanity (servants of one another).
'Abdu'l-Bahá used to say that the members of all nations and religions were from God, that all religions have come for the training of mankind, all have come for the unity of hearts and for the showing forth of affection, one
page 137
toward another, and, because the truth of all religions is one, all the prophet praised God, all the religions worshipped one God, the prophets are from one Reality.
We must hold to reality, and set aside the superstitions which have crept in.
'Abdu'l-Bahá used to say we should not have prejudice, saying, "I am a Christian, I am a Jew, etc., I am of the West and this one is of the East, or, I am an American and that one an European.  Nay rather, we should say that we are all children of Adam and sisters and brothers of each other."  How much 'Abdu'l-Bahá wished that there might be unity between the coloured and white races, between the East and the West.  He repeatedly said, do the white doves and the black doves fight each other?  Do the Western sheep and the Eastern sheep contend with each other?  No, God forbid, they are rather in utmost love and friendship with one another, because they are of the gentle creatures.  Fighting, quarrelling and strangeness are found among the ferocious creatures.  How can man, who is the best of created beings, become involved in such a state!
Is it not good economics that the money spent in wars and destruction be expended instead in promoting and developing human welfare and in improving the conditions of life?  Is it not good economics that we should gather together our strength and might to bring forth those treasures which are hid in the earth, and then use them for the betterment of humanity?
But the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are many.  The whole of Persia was too small to contain such a precious jewel as 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  When a pearl is in a shell gradually it grows and grows until the shell cannot contain the pearl.  Then the shell breaks and throws out the pearl because the shell has not the capacity to hold it.  In the same way; Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá were the two precious pearls of whom Persia formed the shell, but that shell was small and could not keep these precious pearls; therefore it broke and threw them forth.
Although the exile to Baghdád, to Constantinople, to Adrianople and to 'Akká was an act of great oppression, yet there was great good in it, for the teachings of those souls were more widely spread in the world.  This is why, repeatedly, both Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá said they were happy and glad because of their imprisonment and exile.
We said that Persia was too small to hold these precious jewels, yet we must remember the high attainments of that land, for the learned ones of the world know that that land has brought forth great men, philosophers, poets and leaders, nay more, in ancient times Persia had seers like Mahábád and Zoroaster.  And in this century, although the civilization and progress of that country have declined, she can now be proud of these jewels, the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Persia can say, "O people of the world!  God still is with me; truth has not turned its face away from me!
"It is my horizon, shining brilliantly, which gives forth light to all the world."
The husband of my sister's daughter had been martyred, one of eighty-four persons who were martyred together, in Yazd, in 1903.  The young man was twenty-five years old.  His mother had only this one boy.  She gathered up and brought all her money to the executioners and begged them to take it and not to kill her boy.  They took the money from her, then shot the boy before her eyes.
About a month afterward a Tablet was revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, without anyone's having written to tell him of what had happened.  The Tablet came through me to the wife of the young man:
"O thou persecuted hand-maiden of God!
"Although rich women may be brought up in utmost ease and comfort and luxury, yet at last that comfort and ease will be buried in the dust, in the narrow grave, in a dark place.
page 138
"The ease of the day will pass away, and the happiness of the evening be spent.  But in reality and in truth the hand-maidens who have entered the Divine Path, though they receive persecution, trouble and martyrdom, and see their loved ones persecuted, and drowned in their blood, their end will be everlasting glory and their home eternal.
"Then be thou not sad that thou hast sacrificed thy husband in the path of the beloved of the Lord, that illumined youth whom thou didst see immersed in blood, and in the dust.  That was not death, it was life.  It was not annihilation, it was existence itself.  It was not calamity, it was divine grace.  Then praise thou God that thou hast reached such a station and that thou hast come to such a position.  Ere long the world and whatsoever is therein will pass away; but the traces of the martyrs in the path of God will remain forever.  This world will become a paradise, this world will be seen as heavenly, and the station of these souls will become apparent and known.
"Upon thee be greeting and praise."


XIV:5, August 1923
page 138
The wonderful life of Qurratu'l-'Ayn
Jináb-i-Fádil
"The appearance of such a woman as Qurratu'l-'Ayn is in any country and any age a rare phenomenon, but in such a country as Persia, it is a prodigy-nay, almost a miracle.  Alike in virtue of her marvellous beauty, her rare intellectual gifts, her fervid eloquence, her fearless devotion and her glorious martyrdom, she stands forth incomparable and immortal amidst her countrywomen.  Had the Bábí religion no other claim to greatness, this were sufficient-that it Produced a heroine like Qurratu'l-'Ayn."-Prof. E. G. Browne, of Cambridge University, England.
One of the great principles of the Bahá'í Cause is the progress of woman and equality between men and women.  When we speak of equality between men and women many people think that this idea is not new.  But it was new at the beginning of this Cause and came from it.  It was so new and so important that it was one of the greatest signs of the progress of this age.  No one had ever conceived of this idea of equality; nothing definite concerning it was written in any religious book of any age, and some people have even thought that the opposite was taught.
Many women of the early period of the Cause in the Eastern countries rose like flames of fire, like the stars of God.  Even in the Occident accounts were written of one of them, Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  Her history is very long and interesting.  Her sublime faith, her lofty thought, her ardent work and service were truly a great miracle.  She was indeed a woman whose equal is seldom found in the history of mankind.  Her name, Qurratu'l-'Ayn, means "Consolation of the Eyes".  This title was hers because in knowledge, in sagacity, in radiance of soul and spirit, she was unique among the women of her country.  She was a great and illumined soul who shone at the beginning of the Bahá'í movement, eighty years ago.
Qurratu'l-'Ayn's father and uncle were members of the clergy of Persia, and were conspicuous for their dogmatic beliefs.  Her great uncle, especially, was a bitter enemy of the Cause.  She and her sister were trained, in their home, by their father and uncles, according to the education of that time, scientific, literary and religious.  But Qurratu'l-'Ayn hungered for greater knowledge; she was never satisfied with the education which her father and uncles could give her and she finally left her native city to study
page 139
in a theological institution which was a centre of religious education.
Women at that time were not supposed to leave their homes to further their education, nor were they supposed to go to other cities in search of the knowledge of God.  But Qurratu'l-'Ayn was graduated from the seminary, and received a diploma.  This was contrary to the custom-to give a woman a diploma in theology-and up to that time men only had received them.  But Qurratu'l-'Ayn's attainments were so extraordinary that they were obliged to give her a diploma.
She then returned home, and married the son of her uncle.  Difficulties now arose, for she was very brilliant, very illumined, and her husband was a reactionary leader.  She was much esteemed, and at whatever gathering she appeared she spoke upon profound religious subjects.  She was a gifted poet and wrote in both Persian and Arabic poetry of a very high order.  She had two sons and one daughter.
The Bahá'í Movement had not as yet arisen, but the minds and the hearts of the people were awakening and becoming ready for this Cause.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn was still so eager for spiritual knowledge that she left her home and family to study a second time at the religious centre.  She spent much time in meditation and supplication, and received inspiration from God.  From her deep study she understood that God was about to manifest Himself again, and she was very anxious to meet and speak with the Manifestation.  Continually she talked of this, teaching the people and telling them that He would arise.  There were several other great and illumined souls who, also, knew that the Light of God was about to appear.  They tried to find the Manifestation, seeking diligently from city to city for the Light of God.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn was, herself, not permitted to travel, but she asked them to notify her when they found the Divine One.  After some time spent in travelling at last, in the year 1844, they found His Holiness the Báb.  They recognized his station and understood that he was the morning star in the early dawn of this great Day.  Filled with this knowledge they wrote to Qurratu'l-'Ayn.
One night Qurratu'l-'Ayn had a vision.  A beautiful being, with illumined face, and wearing a green turban, stood between earth and heaven, praying in new words, with a new meaning, a prayer she had never heard before.  When she awoke she remembered the prayer he had chanted and wrote it down.  She was waiting for news of this heavenly being when those other great souls met the Báb and wrote to her of him.  They sent her several lines from the early writings of the Báb; these lines were exactly the same as those which she had heard in her dream.  She became aflame with interest, and sought eagerly for further news of His Holiness the Báb.
One of those early disciples of the Báb was sent by him to the city where Qurratu'l-'Ayn lived and studied in order to work with her.  The Báb soon wrote an epistle to the head of the faculty at the theological centre, revealing to him the Glad Tidings.  This epistle was given to this disciple and to Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  In it the Báb said:  "If you have spiritual insight you will know that this is the Word of God.  If you can distinguish the Word of God from human thought, you will know that this is the truth.  If, with the knowledge you possess, you are not sure, after studying together you must pray and God will send a sign to make clear the truth."
They went to the head of the theological institution and gave him the message; and the news of the Cause spread in that city.  Some of the people believed.  But many of the mullás did not, and arose in opposition.
One day Qurratu'l-'Ayn while talking of the Cause at the home of a woman believer, knew intuitively, all at once, that difficulties had arisen, and she said, "I must go home."  Soon after she had
page 140
left enemies surrounded the house and took the believer prisoner, thinking her to be Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  They inflicted injuries upon her, but she was happy to bear them.  As they carried her through the city, surrounded by enemies, a man, who knew her, told the captors that she was not Qurratu'l-'Ayn whereupon they set her free.  After this Qurratu'l-'Ayn went to these enemies and said, "I am Qurratu'l-'Ayn What do you wish?"  They took her and banished her with her friends to Baghdád.
In Baghdád she was placed, under Government guard, in the house of a leading muftí.8  The Governor of the city declared, "I cannot understand this matter for I do not know enough about this religion.  We will call a meeting of the mullás and question her."
When this was done, Qurratu'l-'Ayn, being a woman, could not come into the presence of the mullás, but must remain behind a curtain.  From that place she gave the message with great power.  Many people were present and they asked many questions, to all of which she gave answers which were in accordance with religious and scientific knowledge.  Those who listened were completely satisfied and many believed her, realizing that she had profound spiritual insight.  A Jew, who was present, became a believer because of her explanations.  He recognized in her words the knowledge of God.  The muftí of the city also became greatly attracted to the teachings.
The Governor of Baghdád finally exiled her with the friends who came with her.  But wherever they went they gave the message and awakened the people.  They would enter a city, go to a large house, and invite everyone to come and listen to them.  Then, in a few days, the enemies would band together and wreck the house in order to break up the meetings.  The Governor would then command Qurratu'l-'Ayn to leave the city.  On one occasion, when they had been driven quite a distance from the city-there were no trains-the driver left Qurratu'l-'Ayn and her companions in the desert, taking the horses with him that there might be no means of escape.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn wrote an eloquent letter which one of the men of the party carried back to the city.  The heart of the Governor was touched when he read this letter and he sent a horse and donkeys to carry them on.  Thus Qurratu'l-'Ayn overcame all manner of difficulties.
When she returned to her native city she was opposed by all her relatives, and was made practically a prisoner in her own home.  Every day and night these relatives met to question her, but they could not confound her, she was so much better informed than they.  Her uncle said, "If you told us you were a Manifestation we would believe it because you have such great knowledge; but when you tell us that a young man without education is the Manifestation we cannot believe it."  She told them that earthly knowledge is but a drop from the unlimited ocean of the revelation of God.
While these events were taking place the Báb was a prisoner on the top of a high mountain, in the extreme end of western Persia.  He was surrounded by Persian guards and cut off from all communication with his followers.  Although his jailers were very vigilant and tried in every way to prevent his disciples from seeing him, yet the friends of the Báb came to the castle where he was imprisoned from every direction, travelling from the north, south, east and west, and by many ingenious ways met him, received his blessing and returned home.
There were many apostles of the Báb who were highly trained in deep spiritual knowledge.  They were busy heralding in every way the new day and the coming of the new truth.
While Qurratu'l-'Ayn was a prisoner in her own home, a disciple of the Báb appeared in the city of Qazvín, and started a class for the study of these spiritual teachings, giving the New Mes-
page 141
sage.  Through the patience and fortitude of Qurratu'l-'Ayn in teaching the Cause, and the spreading of the Message by this follower of the Báb, many people became believers, and the fire of opposition was kindled among the Muslim clergy.  The great uncle of Qurratu'l-'Ayn, seized this moment to rise in the mosque and speak against the Báb, thus still further augmenting the opposition.  These vehement speeches so inflamed the animosity against the believers that they were scoffed at and derided everywhere.
On one occasion a fanatical mob took one of the teachers and a few others to the gate of the house of this great uncle of Qurratu'l-'Ayn bastinadoed them, and there left them.  Another believer was beaten almost to death, and then carried to the house of the Governor.  When his brother went to ask for the release of the tortured one the Governor answered by placing a foot of each in the stocks, and beating them mercilessly.
One may imagine how Qurratu'l-'Ayn in her home, felt when she heard of these deeds.  Although her relatives tried in every way to prevent her from leaving the house yet she managed to meet the friends, in a home where the pilgrims gathered who had visited the Báb.  They met together with greatest unity and joy, encouraged each other, and gained wisdom and strength.
Two great difficulties now arose for Qurratu'l-'Ayn, one within the Cause, one without.  Through her intuitive wisdom she realized that the day had come when the old dispensation should end and though she had had no direct instruction from the Báb, she herself began to inaugurate changes and to spread them abroad.  It was in the earliest days of the Cause and the time had not yet come for the Báb to announce these innovations, for the hearts of the people were not ready.
One of the pillars of superstition was the veiling of Muslim women and their non-association with men.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn with supreme courage, laid aside her veil, and came out heroically to mingle with men.  There were many of the friends who were strong and sincere, but, having heard or read nothing on this matter (of the veil) from the Báb, they were shocked and astonished and they blamed Qurratu'l-'Ayn, calling her a heretic.  Then it occurred to them to ask the Báb what he thought about the matter.  They forthwith sent him, by a special messenger, long epistles against Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  On the way the messenger met a prominent believer and told him of this difficulty in the movement.  The great man said, "I believe that Qurratu'l-'Ayn is right, although I have no authority for saying so."
When the Báb received these documents he wrote a wonderful epistle, praising the extraordinary qualities of Qurratu'l-'Ayn and calling her "The Pure One".  When this glorious epistle arrived all the doubts of the friends disappeared and an understanding of the greatness of Qurratu'l-'Ayn grew in the minds of those who had judged her.
The other difficulty was this:  the great uncle of Qurratu'l-'Ayn, he who was so opposed to the Cause, had the habit of reviling in public meetings, the Báb and the forerunner of the Báb, Shaykh Ahmad.  At one of these meetings a disciple of Shaykh Ahmad, who loved him very much, was in the audience and he became very much excited when Shaykh Ahmad was attacked.  So one morning, when the uncle was praying in the mosque, this disciple killed him.  Although the murderer was not a follower of the Cause, but of Shaykh Ahmad, yet, because this Shaykh had foretold the coming of the Báb, the whole city arose, blaming the friends of the Báb.  The mob attacked and pillaged the homes of the believers, imprisoning them and putting chains around their necks; and it was decided that Qurratu'l-'Ayn must be placed in still closer confinement.
The father of Qurratu'l-'Ayn at first held the mob at bay before his house, and tried to save her.  But he was soon
page 142
overcome and they rushed in, took her with two other women, and carried her before the Governor of the town.  The Governor questioned them minutely about the murder and Qurratu'l-'Ayn with the greatest eloquence explained that the Bábís had had nothing to do with it.  The Governor, however, was not appeased, and he had hot irons brought to brand the women who were with Qurratu'l-'Ayn to compel them to tell a different story.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn turned her face toward heaven and began to pray.  The court was filled with curious spectators, all watching eagerly this terrible deed.
Just as the burning iron touched the hand of one of the women there arose a commotion at the back of the court, the people crying out that the murderer had been found.  He had heard what was being done to the women, and his conscience caused him to confess.  So he asked to be taken to the Governor.  This confession was such an unheard-of occurrence that the people were incredulous, but he said, "If you do not believe me, I will dig up the dagger that you may see it."  He showed them where to find the dagger, and they were convinced.
The persecutions of Qurratu'l-'Ayn continued, and a number of the friends were taken, with the murderer who had confessed, to Tihrán, the capital of Persia.  They were all kept prisoners for several months, and then the command came to execute several of them.  The relatives and family of Qurratu'l-'Ayn so hated her that they tried in every way to injure her and her followers.  The Governor at last set her free, but ordered her to stay in her own home and not to go out.  This she did for a long time, always closely guarded.  Fearful lest her food be poisoned some of the friends, in the guise of servants, took special dishes to her.  She lived, thus, in close confinement, until released by Bahá'u'lláh.
Bahá'u'lláh, in Tihrán, sent a letter to Qazvín to Qurratu'l-'Ayn by special messengers who brought a horse and left it outside the city wall.  The messengers entered the city at sunset and were taken secretly to Qurratu'l-'Ayn in the middle of the night.  She escaped from her house and the city with them, mounted the horse which was waiting for her and, travelling day and night, reached Tihrán.  With greatest joy she stood in the presence of Bahá'u'lláh.
Of the two men who accompanied her in her flight from Qazvín one was a believer and the other was not.  Bahá'u'lláh entrusted to this second escort a large sum of money; this he was to carry in his saddle bag.  The money was in gold and silver and the man reasoned with himself that it would be safer to put the silver pieces on top; then if robbers attacked him they would take the silver and leave the gold.  When they reached their journey's end Qurratu'l-'Ayn expressed great appreciation of his services and, without looking at the money, took nine handfuls from the bag and gave them to the man.  She picked up the silver pieces as they were on top, and he was disappointed.  Surmising this Qurratu'l-'Ayn said to him, "You will prosper greatly in the future.  This money is but for the expenses of the journey.  God will bless you."
In the absence of this man the enemies of the Cause stirred up the people against the believers and, knowing this man to be friendly to them they searched for him.  However, upon his return, the search was discontinued, in almost miraculous fashion.  The man then realized the truth of what Qurratu'l-'Ayn had told him.  Later he became very rich.
During these days there were many meetings of great spiritual importance, the friends sitting at the feet of Bahá'u'lláh and learning new truths.  One day, at one of these meetings a very learned man was present.  He discoursed upon philosophy, giving proofs and evidences regarding the Cause.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn listened for a while, then arose, and cried out, "This is the day of deeds.  If thou art a man show forth deeds!"
page 143
Again, there was a great meeting, where many of the friends were gathered, (The Conference at Badasht).  Up to that time women had taken no part in such a meeting; the veil was still worn, and prejudice was strong.  In the middle of the meeting Qurratu'l-'Ayn entered, suddenly, without her veil.  The believers were utterly astonished, and much excited, and the meeting was thrown into confusion.  Then Bahá'u'lláh, who was present, told one of the friends to chant the chapter from the Qur'án about the Resurrection:  "The old conditions have passed away and the new conditions have been set up.  The old ideas have vanished and the new principles have appeared."
After this Conference Qurratu'l-'Ayn started upon a long journey, teaching from city to city.  She was continually followed by spies who sought a pretext to accuse her.  Finally she was arrested, carried back to Tihrán, and imprisoned in the top of a house, in a room which could only be reached by climbing a ladder.  Here she was kept for nearly four years.  It so happened that this house was the home of the Mayor of Tihrán.  His family became interested in Qurratu'l-'Ayn and often invited her to, come down stairs and take part in their entertainments.
One of these occasions was the wedding of the son of the Mayor, and Qurratu'l-'Ayn was invited to be a guest.  Now a wedding day is a time of merry making and not a religious festival; so there was music and dancing.  But when Qurratu'l-'Ayn appeared, with majestic carriage and spiritual face, the assembled company looked upon her with awe and asked her to speak to them.  She talked eloquently upon the Cause and its teachings of justice.
Shortly before her life was ended Qurratu'l-'Ayn was ordered to appear before the Sháh of Persia, an awe-inspiring despot.  He had heard many tales of her, of her wonderful personality and magnetic powers which could win the hearts of her enemies even.  So he wished to see her.
When she arrived at the audience room the Sháh was there surrounded with all the pomp of his high position.  In she walked, carrying herself straight as an arrow, and began to speak to the Sháh of the great spiritual principles of the Cause.  He became so interested because of her beauty, eloquence and depth of knowledge that his mother feared lest he be converted; so she called the guards to remove Qurratu'l-'Ayn.
In the year 1852 orders were given by the Sháh that all the believers be killed, and the life of Qurratu'l-'Ayn was demanded.  On the day appointed, the first man assigned the task of martyring her refused to perpetrate the deed.  A second man was then sent.  He was intoxicated and strangled her with a handkerchief; then he threw her body into a well and covered it with stones.
So she gave up her life, and her spirit ascended to the Kingdom.  Though her body returned to the dust, yet her light is ever shining; she is living always.  Her name and her services are eternal.
A large volume might be written of the life of this peerless woman.  In the history of the world there are few like her.  Educated and beautiful, a gifted poet, she was still willing to sacrifice all, even her life, for the sake of truth, that through the spreading of truth the world of humanity might become enlightened.
When Qurratu'l-'Ayn was in prison the jailers refused to give her paper and ink.  But so eager was she to write to her sister that she used a straw from the broom for a pen and the juice of green vegetables as ink.  She wrote thrilling poems, sublime ideas, eloquent verses on the bits of paper which were wrapped around her food and sent them to her friends.  These poems are today chanted throughout the East.  Her verses are full of the fire of divine love.


XIV:5, August 1923
page 146
The problem of law enforcement
Thirteen hundred years ago, in the Arabian Desert among a group of savage people so degraded that they buried alive their daughters, there arose a prophet of God, named Muhammad.  One of the laws which he transmitted from the heaven of the Divine Will was that of abstinence from alcoholic liquors.
For over a thousand years the millions of his true followers have refrained from the drinking of wine.  One of our American university presidents, in a tour around the world some years ago, remarked upon the striking absence of drunkenness in all the Muslim cities which he visited.
Thirteen hundred years later the voters of the United States passed a prohibition law and, to make it adamantine and everlasting, incorporated it in the Constitution itself.  Yet all the authorities of this, one of the strongest nations of the world, are unable really to enforce this law.
The only authority that can truly establish a law is the conscience of a people.  The outer authorities cannot watch all the multitudes every moment.  The secret, hidden infractions of a law they can never prevent.  But if the conscience of a people recognizes an ordinance as the will of God, they will obey it.  For God is Almighty, Ever-Present.  He sees the inmost heart.  By His divine justice He
page 147
punishes and rewards not only deeds but thoughts and motives.  Once the love and the fear of God arise in the hearts of a people and they behold a law as the will of their Eternal Beloved, they will obey it.  Even the flames at the stake cannot prevent that obedience.
This is the record of all human history, that the Great Prophets transmit this love for God and His commandments:  They are the mouth-pieces of God, the Manifestations of God.  "For the law of God is a collective centre which unites various peoples, native lands, tongues and opinions.  All find shelter in its protection and become attracted by it.  For example, Moses and the Mosaic law were the unifying centre for the scattered sheep of Israel.  He united these wandering flocks, brought them under control of divine law, educated and unified them, caused them to agree and uplifted them to a superlative degree of development.  At a time when they were debased, they became glorified; ignorant, they were made knowing; in the bonds of captivity, they were given freedom; in short, they were unified.  Day by day they advanced until they attained the highest degree of progress witnessed in that age.  We prove, therefore, that the Manifestation of God and the law of God accomplish unity.
...
"Consider the time of Christ.  Peoples, races and governments were many; religions, sects and denominations were various; but when Christ appeared, the Messianic reality proved to be the collective centre which unified them beneath the same tabernacle of agreement. ...  Therefore, it is shown that the divine Manifestations, the holy Mouthpieces of God, are the Collective Centres of God."9-'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Today this voice of Divine Authority, for multitudes of Christians and Jews, is silent.  New conditions of society, new sciences, a new industrial order have obscured the shining commandments of Moses and the Christ.  Many Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Chinese, are finding the same difficulty in obeying and following their sacred scriptures.
The time has now arrived when from every corner of the world comes the cry for a new outpouring of the Spirit of Truth, to lead us into all truth.  We need a new spiritual and scientific explanation of sacred scriptures and symbols, a new voice that speaks with authority, a new application of the divine law to present world conditions.  Science is new, world-communication is new, crime has a new power, war has become a new and world-enveloping terror.  Therefore we must have a new revelation of the Eternal Truth, powerful enough to solve these problems of the potentially marvellous age in which we are living.  We need a teaching which will gather together the broken rays of new sciences, new world movements and longings into the pure white light from which they came.
In the writings and life of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá we find in world illuminating splendour the new manifestation of the Ancient Glory of God.  These great teachers explain in scientific terms the bibles of old, their prophecies, their miracles and their commandments.  They make the sacred scriptures of all religions one continuous revelation, and reveal the real process of creation, over its millions of years.  They manifest again that Holy Spirit which produces a new creation.  They transmit God's voice so clearly that a multitude from all religions and races are laying down their prejudices, their fears, their points of separation that the law of universal love and the oneness of mankind may be established among the nations.  Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá have become the centre of the new world of brotherhood and peace.


XIV:5, August 1923
page 148
Mount Carmel, the Vineyard of God
"The air here at Mount Carmel," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "is fragrant and the earth is sweet."  "Syria is a most wonderful country.  It is a world in miniature.  The trees of the hot climates, date palm, orange, mandarins, etc., are found in Syria.  Tiberias is known for its hot weather, but Mount Lebanon is a cool summer resort."
"In reality the air of Mount Carmel is most energizing.  I have breathed the air of many country places and have seen much natural scenery, but the air of this mountain is most wholesome, vitalizing, and its scenery is very entrancing.  Purity of air, sublimity of panorama and beauty of landscape are united on Mount Carmel presenting to the eye a noble and inspiring spectacle of nature; its panorama of sea and land is very unique, its sun is all-glorious, its moon all-beautiful and its stars are all-sparkling."
"Many Jewish prophets either lived here or passed a portion of their lives or sojourned for a while or spent the last days of their existence on this mountain."  This is the Holy Land, the land which gave birth to the prophets-Abraham Isaac, Joseph, David, Solo-
page 149
mon, Moses, Isaiah, Zechariah and, last of all, Christ.  Elijah lived on Mount Carmel.  You must love this land very much because all these holy happenings have taken place here.  His Holiness Christ came to this holy mountain many times.  The atmosphere is permeated with wonderful spirituality."-From the unpublished Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 1914.
__________
[See Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 1-7, for the Tablet of Carmel.]
__________
page 150
The future of the Cause
The Governor of Acre called upon the Master this morning.  Having heard of the success of the Cause in America, he wondered how it was possible to unite Muslims, Christians, Jews and Zoroastrians.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said:
"Things will come to pass in a wonderful way after my departure.  God has brought about this, that He should be on earth and, at the same time, not be (on earth), in order that the beloved ones may not relax their work.
"There will be a little time of quiet, after my departure.  Then there will be a great (spiritual) blaze.  Especially will this happen if the divine friends remain firm and steadfast in the Covenant, if they are not troubled or disturbed.
"The Blessed Beauty has crowned his believers, and especially those who were in the Great Prison, with an everlasting diadem of sovereignty.  In the days of Jesus, the Son of Mary, those who were under the shelter of Jesus could not realize under what shelter they were abiding.  But after His Holiness Jesus ascended they served Him faithfully-may my life be a sacrifice to them!  In the days of His Holiness Jesus they did not accomplish anything.
"And now no one can realize what a crown is laid upon the heads of the believers, especially those who were associated with the Blessed Beauty in the Great Prison.  They underwent great troubles; for days they did not rest.  Therefore we must in appreciation of this grace and virtue arise and serve the Cause of God.  A similar crown should be placed upon our heads.  We were poor, he made us rich.  We were looked down upon, we became respected.  We were ignorant, we became learned.  We were blind, we found sight.  We were deaf, we now can hear.  There has been no bounty which he has not shown to us.  As a sign of gratitude for these gifts and blessings we must be firm and steadfast in the Cause of God.
"All this place will be filled with schools, hospitals, asylums, orphanages and pilgrim houses.  The kings of the earth will go forth from the Supreme Shrine at Haifa to the Blessed Shrine at 'Akká.  In the future Haifa and 'Akká will be united.  There will be villas, suburbs and gardens.  Here will be the eternal pilgrimage for the world."-From the Diary of Mírzá Badí' Búshrú'í, Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh, Bahjí, 'Akká, 16 April 1916.


XIV:5, August 1923
page 150
In the name of God!
O Most Mighty Branch!
On Wednesday two written leaflets have been received from thee and every letter thereof testified unto the Unity of the Divine Essence and the Sanctity of God, the True One, above all resemblance and likeness.  Blessed be thy pen, thine ink and the scroll that beareth thy remembrance.
page 151
I pray God that by thee He may graciously enable His servants to sound the inmost depths of the Ocean of Divine Unity, that through thy remembrance He may aid them to drink deep from the stream of Everlasting Life, that through thine utterance He may cause them to quaff the mystic wine of the knowledge of God, that He may assist thee to triumph by the Hosts of understanding and wisdom in such wise that by thee He may gloriously conquer the citadels of worlds and of hearts!  There is none other God but He, the Gracious, the Beloved!
O thou that art the apple of mine eye!  My Glory rest upon thee.  Mine ocean of loving-kindness, the Day-Star of my Grace, the heavens of my mercy be with thee.  We pray unto God that He may illumine all mankind with the light of thy knowledge and wisdom; that He may ordain for thee that which may gladden thy heart and solace thine eyes
Mighty and Powerful is He over all things!
Glory, mercy and praise rest upon thee, and upon whomsoever circleth around Thee!
Tablet written by Bahá'u'lláh to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Translated by Shoghi Effendi.


XIV:5, August 1923
page 153
Letters from Shoghi Effendi
Australia and New Zealand
"My dearest co-workers in that distant land:
"How great was my joy to learn that in that far-away continent, remote from the turmoil and restlessness of a weary world, the Voice of God has been raised and proclaimed and, has attracted such a promising number of ardent and faithful lovers of Bahá'u'lláh.
"I offer you my heartfelt love and sympathy and the assurance of my unfailing assistance in the great work of service to mankind which is now so gloriously unfolding itself to your eyes.
"I have shared fully your news with those loving pilgrims and resident friends in the Holy Land whom I meet regularly in what was in the past the audience-chamber of the Master and who thirst after the tidings of the progress of the Cause in every land.  They, and myself with them, will pray most fervently for every one of you that the seeds of faith and loving fellowship that you are casting in the soil of hearts may germinate and swell the ever increasing numbers of the valiant hosts of Bahá and enable them to attain glorious victory.
"I shall await with eager expectation the welcome news of the extension of your activities, the widening of your correspondence with the various spiritual centres throughout the world, the plans you contemplate for the spreading of the Movement and the means you will utilize for their speedy execution.  On my part I shall never neglect to send you such news as will urge you to press forward your great work for the Cause and hearten you in your labours of love and devotion at His Sacred Threshold.
"Your brother in His Service,
(Signed) Shoghi
page 155
Washington, D.C.
The beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful in Washington, D.C., USA.  Care of the members of the Spiritual Assembly.
Dearest Friends:
I welcome gladly and heartily this first opportunity of expressing to you in writing what I have always felt in the depths of my heart of my confident hopes for your whole-hearted assistance in the great task that is before me.
I know too well of the spirit of ardent devotion and steadfast love that animates you in your labours for the Cause, and it is primarily upon this that I confidently rely in facing the great responsibilities of the future.
The world is sadly stricken and in a state of continuous turmoil and signs of weariness and despondency are apparent everywhere.  But we, fired with the hope of the Abhá Kingdom and ever mindful of the unfailing promises of the dawn of a new and better day, must weather every storm and endeavour to impart to every earnest seeker that firm faith and inner peace which the world cannot give.
It is our vital and most urgent duty to assure at whatever cost the safety and the unity of the Cause of God, and with harmony and concord firmly established amongst us, to arise with confidence and courage for the enlightenment of the world and the salvation of mankind.
With my best wishes and earnest prayers for your success in these noble endeavours,
I am your brother and co-worker,
(Signed) Shoghi
Pasadena, California
The Beloved Children of 'Abdu'l-Bahá (Pasadena, California).
...
page 156
My dearly beloved brethren and sisters in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
Your sweet messages of love and greeting transmitted through the kindness of our beloved Bahá'í sister, Mrs Collins, have deeply touched my heart and have strengthened my hope and confidence in the great service which the Bahá'í youth will render in future to the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.
I have read your individual letters with the deepest interest and enclose for you all in this short answer of mine flowers planted in the close vicinity of the Holy Shrine and placed upon the Sacred Thresholds of the Báb and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  And as I placed them on those hallowed spots I remembered you most tenderly, and prayed on your behalf, beseeching the Almighty to guide and protect you in your earnest endeavours to learn and to teach the Cause of God.
I very strongly urge you to devote your time to a very serious and profound study of the history of the Cause and of the various Writings of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The study of the Cause and its Teachings and the daily endeavour to exemplify its Spirit in our dealings with our fellow men are the most essential obligations of all Bahá'ís, whether young or old, who aspire to see this Divine Message spread throughout the world.
As to a name for your Club, "Bahá'í Fellowship" seems to be the best reminder of the spirit that must animate continually its members in their work of service to mankind.  I cherish the hope that you will all show forth in all your activities the spirit of true Bahá'í fellowship, and grow to become efficient workers in His Divine Vineyard.
Wishing you success from all my heart,
I am your devoted brother,
(Signed) Shoghi
Haifa, Palestine.  18 March 1923.
Brooklyn, New York
The beloved of the Lord and the hand-maids of the Merciful in Brooklyn, New York, USA.
Care of the members of the Spiritual Assembly.
Dear brethren and sisters in 'Abdu'l-Bahá:
In these days of world unrest, of political upheavals, of social disruption and spiritual ferment, the one Power that can bind effectively together the scattered and conflicting elements of human society and breathe into them the vivifying and eternal Spirit of Life is indeed the power of the Call of Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!
We, of this noble Faith, the chosen ones of God, who carry with us this wholesome Medicine for the ills and sicknesses of this world, must now bestir ourselves to further activity and relentless efforts in the great and urgent mission entrusted to us by Bahá'u'lláh, that we may minister freely and effectively to the needs of mankind.
Our primary duty is to create by our words and deeds, our conduct and example, the atmosphere in which the seeds of the words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, cast so profusely during well-nigh eighty years, may germinate and give forth those fruits that alone can assure peace and prosperity to this distracted world.
Clear in our vision, broad in our outlook, tireless in our energies and steadfast in our hopes, let us promote one and all this great work of Reconciliation of which the world stands in such great need at present.
May the Light of His Divine Guidance illumine our path and lead us to our glorious destiny.
Your brother,
(Signed) Shoghi


XIV:6, September 1923
page 161
The search for truth
Louis G. Gregory
The search for truth has caused the forward march of mankind in all ages of the world.  The will to know is one of the most powerful mainsprings of action and the greatest incentive to progress.  Freedom and happiness, both for the individual and collective man, depend upon the knowledge of truth.  Greater joy there cannot be than that of discovery.  But this attainment is impossible for man unless he becomes an independent seeker.  He should, for this noble purpose, put aside empty forms and servile imitations.  And while reverence for ancestors is praiseworthy, the independent investigator must weigh his conclusions in the balance of sound logic.  However long established the view-points of others, he must strive to know for himself.  While this station is possible for all men, its attainment requires courage.  For no discoverer of truth can hope to escape the sneers and jeers of prejudice and ignorance.  But although the path is difficult, it is yet glorious.  Through the degrees of martyrdom the soul of man is freed from its earthly cage and makes extraordinary advancement.  The bold and untrammelled search for truth is the light of genius in all times.  The power of truth removes the stagnant pools and dead seas of outworn usages.  It refreshes the soul of man with living streams that flow from the Bosom of God.
Job said:  "I know that my Redeemer liveth!"  Such an exalted height of knowledge is not impossible for any man.  For the very purpose of man's existence is to know his Creator.  The powers by which he may know God are hidden within his own being.  Attraction to the beauty of truth reveals man's inward powers.  The genial flame of truth sets in motion new vibrations, unfolds the true virtues of religion and the laws of science, apprehends the mysteries of God and His endless creations.  Great and wonderful are the reaches of mind.  Deep and subtle are the mysteries of the heart.  When the inner sight is clear through powers that are heart-dwelling, the mind is brightened and man is thereby elevated to his true station of glory and splendour above the world of matter.  If he does not discover these latent powers the purpose of life is lost.  If he does not use these forces, by what sign can he prove himself man?  The hand, the eye, and other powers of the physical temple have their manifest functions and improve their skill by service.  Should not those greater powers, which attest the emanations of Divinity in man, adorn his career and crown his destiny?  The aspiration of man soars Heavenward as he strives to awaken these powers.  Spiritual unity is the reality of man and the presence of Divine Bounty.
The beginning of truth-seeking, which
page 162
may lead through Divine Favour to the Greatest Light, is very simple.  First of all, let us have faith; and as a sign of faith let us humbly ask the Giver of Bounty for light and knowledge.  If one thereupon subjects whatever is presented him to a reasonable inquiry, he may be astonished at his own growth.  If the mind is free from bias or hate, the horizon will widen and faith will become confidence.  Even as when, as hungry children, we go to our parents for food, fully confident that they will answer our needs, even more firm should be our assurance that the Light of God will not mislead us.
The Bahá'í teachings, which focalize reality, reveal the unity of truth, however diversified its aspects.  The oneness of God reveals the oneness of truth.  The singleness of truth reflects the singleness of God.  All things in creation are related through their common emanation from Divinity.  Because reality is indivisible, it can never be plural.  The Divine Light which is the essence of truth, is the universal Glory of God, now manifest.  "It is the Bahá of Abhá which covers the earth as the waters cover the deep."  When this fact becomes generally known, how conducive will it be to the unity of religions, the end of strife and the establishment of eternal peace!  When hearts are aflame with the sacred fire of truth, thoughts will coincide in the reflection of One Reality and constructive service will heal the world.  And since this wondrous light and knowledge are impossible save through the Manifestation of God, the ascent of man depends only upon his detachment from all else and his attraction in greater and greater degree to that manifest Splendour.  Marvellous poise!  Infinite joy!  Universal Harmony!
How sad and depressing is the bedlam caused by the opposite!  Not long ago, before a noted gathering, a theologian was heard to state very dogmatically the basis of his own faith and that which in his opinion made it superior to all others.  But it so happened that the dogma he selected as the holy of holies and sine qua non of salvation was no other than a blind superstition, sans scientific, rational, spiritual or even common sense basis.  He was even mistaken in the assumption that his own faith was the only one that relied upon the said superstition.  For inquiry makes it appear that the ancient Egyptians, thousands of years before Christ, as well as millions of non-Christian religionists in the world today, have adhered to the same unprovable belief.  Thus in one breath this good man showed himself an alien to science as also to the comparative study of religions.  The statement of this dogma is omitted here although it is one which many people unthinkingly and blindly support.  The purpose is educational rather than controversial, to stimulate investigation and discovery rather than to shock those who lie dormant.  A religious leader may, in his own way, lord it over the masses for a long time.  But if he has no universal vision of truth where is his capacity to serve mankind in their progress toward unity and freedom?  The attitude of bigotry, narrowness and pride time out of mind has divided the realm of humanity into a multitude of warring sects, belying the spirit of true religion and execrating those whom they should love.  Hopeless is the task of establishing unity on the basis of dogma and superstition.  Yet the veils are being removed; for all the opposition of mice and men cannot prevent the sun from rising!
Truth is the light of God in the world; and God is love.  Truth is the descent of Heaven to man; and Heaven is man's home.  Truth is the manna upon which God feeds His children; and all souls are hungry.  Truth is the outpouring of God's Holy Spirit in the morning of the resurrection; and this is the morning of that great Day of God!  All the Holy Manifestations of God, throughout cycles and ages, have trained humanity in truth.  Their pure and perfect lives were
page 163
standards of truth.  Their sacrificial examples applied the truth.  These perfect mirrors of divinity reflected the truth.  For this noble purpose Jesus Christ and the other Divine Messengers of the past, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá in this day, came to earth in human temples, suffered affliction, pain and martyrdom.  Assuredly their purpose was not to exalt themselves.  Else why should such intelligent beings descend from a realm of pure delight to dwell in the world of dust?  Or whence their indifference to the praise of men?  Their true purpose was to free humanity from the thraldom of nature; to remove the barriers caused by blind imitations, spiritless forms, savage dogmas and ignorant prejudices.  Kindly they wrought, lovingly they taught, that hatred and warfare might be displaced and truth enthroned.  Their oneness of love is outpoured upon all.  Their far reaching Guardianship protects all.  Can man afford to be heedless to this call?  The reign of ignorance and the sovereignty of calamity have ever been for man convertible terms.  The still small voice, stronger than the clash of armaments, counsels peace.  Will the children of men hear the Voice of God?
The devotee of truth avoids contention.  The follower of light seeks its blessing for others.  Disciples of truth are signs of guidance.  One vivified by the spirit of truth may become the means of imparting life to his companions, for he has turned with reverence to the Sun of Truth, the Creative Word, which brightens and cheers all the worlds.  Whoever perceives this wondrous Light will not be misled by a torch or candle, or the will-o'-the-wisp of formalism.  Yet one who is divinely favoured will not only seek light and guidance for his kind, but be merciful even to the animals.  Insight reveals the relationship of the part to the whole.  Guidance brings humility.
Once upon a time, the story runs, six blind men of Hindustan went to see an elephant.  As all were blind, their impressions were dependent upon the sense of touch.  One, touching the elephant's head, said he was like a ball; another, touching his leg, thought him like a tree; another touched his trunk and declared him like a snake; another his tail, likened him to a rope; another his ear, spoke of him as a fan; another his side, insisted that the elephant was like a wall.  They then quarrelled over their various opinions, each adhering to his own with the greatest rancour and obstinacy.  They abused and denounced each other and even fought.  Each partly right, but all generally wrong, the educational effect of listening to each other's points of view was entirely lost.  So it ever is with bigotry and pride.
Happy is he, in this day of hostile creeds and clashing dogmas, who can see the elephant in full proportion.  It symbolizes in this day the Sun of reality and truth.  Yet how difficult is this, because men are so much attached to the idols of their own fancy!  The divine hand ever beckons us to the pathway of light.  There seems a touch of humour, as well as pathos in the divine injunction to the truth-seeker:
"Leave them to amuse themselves with their vain discourse!"
Man should ever mount higher and higher in seeking reality.  He should never let the mind and heart be limited by the imaginations of men.  The vision that is universal is a true emanation from the Divinity of the Word.  The same God gives good gifts to all his children.  The same vital truth is declared in all religions.  The hidden mystery of truth, Divine Love, is the cause of all life.  The inner law is changeless; the outer law is varied by the Giver of Bounty from cycle to cycle to relieve human needs.  Because men are so forgetful, the Merciful Providence in this cycle of truth and knowledge decrees the renewal of the spirit.  What favour can be greater than this?  It is the appearance of this Lordly Splendour which rend the veils of superstition and error and reveals the light of assurance and knowledge.
The great and luminous Apostle Paul
page 164
foresaw the greatness of this day when he wrote:
"When that which is perfect has come, that which is in part shall be done away."  Though men adhere, for limited reasons, to that which is limited, such attachments must ultimately give way; for the darkness is powerless to defeat the light.  As mists disappear before the rising sun, so must error and limitations depart as the Sun of Truth mounts higher and higher, approaching its full power and glory.  The light and heat of this genial Sun will bring to full growth the minds and hearts of men.  There is no night but ignorance!  There is no light but truth!
This blessed assurance is given by Bahá'u'lláh:
"Every soul who sincerely accepts the Word of God hath verily passed through the path and succeeded in approaching the paradise of God's pleasure, and hath assembled with those who are near to God, the chosen ones."
'Abdu'l-Bahá thus reveals to us the beauty of truth and the ultimate goal of man's attainment:
"What is truth?  Truth is the word of God, which gives life to humanity.  It restores sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf; it makes eloquent those who are dumb, and living beings out of dead beings; it illumines the world of heart and soul; it reduces into nothingness the iniquities of the neglectful and erring ones.  Beauty, perfection, brilliancy and spirituality in this existence come from or through the word of God.  For all it is the supreme goal, the greatest desire, the cause of life, light, instruction.  The road to attain to this Truth is the love of God.  When the light of the love of God is burning in the mirror of the heart, that flame shows the way and guides to the Kingdom of the Word of God.
"As to what causes the growth of the love of God, know that it is to turn one's self toward God."


XIV:6, September 1923
page 164
Prayer-the ladder to heaven
From the Words of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, with an introduction by Jináb-i-Fádil.
The Holy Spirit is the power which is in the Manifestations of God.  When man is freed from his natural conditions he draws near to the Holy Spirit.  In the early dawn at Haifa, in the Holy Shrines on Mount Carmel, one finds souls intoxicated with the love of God, at this time of prayer and meditation.  Through meditation the spirit is delivered from the cage of the human nature; real communication is established and divine gifts are granted.  The attitude becomes holy, and we long to serve.
It has been asked:  "Should the heart be emptied, to let God speak?"  The Bahá'ís have many beautiful prayers and supplications in which the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá dwell and when we are using these supplications and thinking of their meaning our spirit expands.
Christ lived for a long time in the caves of the mountain and it is said that Satan came to test His Holiness Christ, but had no effect upon him.  What was Satan and what was the test?  Satan was materialistic thought.  Satan tried to test the Christ because he was leaving behind human thoughts and was turning to the spiritual Kingdom.  Christ had a human body, but his body had no effect upon his spirit.  It is written, "The spirit, indeed, is willing, but the flesh is weak."
Before his declaration, Bahá'u'lláh lived alone in a cave for two years, in a high mountain in a very dangerous country called Kurdistán.  When the simple shepherds of that region heard him praying in the early morning they felt such a spiritual power that they gathered around the cave to listen.
My meaning is this, that when prayer
page 165
or supplication is rising from the heart and is uttered by the tongue, especially if the words are divine words, it attracts divine qualities, like a magnet.
God is Universal Consciousness, unlimited, infinite, unknowable, incomprehensible to our finite minds.  The Infinite cannot be included in the finite, but is reflected from every atom in the universe.  Each kingdom reflects God according to its degree of receptivity, whether mineral, vegetable, animal or human; but the heart of man is the greatest reflector of all.  If you split an atom in the heart of it you will find a sun.  "Dost thou think thy body a small thing, while within thee is enfolded the universe?" said Bahá'u'lláh.
Science has proved that God is not a man in the sky, for there is no place which can be located as Heaven.  An ant with long horns tipped with olfactory nerves would think that God was a very large ant, with long horns just as man thinks God is a great, perfect man.  We have so pictured God as a large man with eyes and ears, who could speak and, perhaps, eat.  As there is no physical Heaven, therefore there is no place for such a God to live in.  Science has released us from this superstition.
But the universe is full of the spirit, the attributes of God, and the heart is a mighty magnet.  True prayer is thinking of, reaching out to God, lifting up our hearts, freeing them from self and material things; and after we have freed the heart it acts as a magnet to attract these qualities, these attributes.  It becomes attuned to these vibrations, as a wireless receiver becomes attuned to certain wave lengths in the air.  The prayers of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá help to put the heart in tune.  From two talks recently given by Jináb-i-Fádil.
__________
"In all the worlds of existence there is nothing more important than prayer.  Prayer confers spirituality upon the heart."10  "Spirituality is the greatest of God's gifts and life everlasting.  It means turning to God."  "Turn your faces away from the contemplation of your own finite selves and fix your eyes upon the Everlasting Radiance; then will your souls receive in full measure the Divine Power of the Spirit and the Blessings of the Infinite Bounty."11
"Stay ye entirely clear of this dark world's concerns, and become ye known by the attributes of those essences that make their home in the Kingdom.  Then shall ye see how intense is the glory of the heavenly Day-Star, and how blinding bright are the tokens of bounty coming out of the invisible realm."12
Morning thoughts
"Everyone upon awaking in the morning awakes with a thought.  The commercial man awakes with the thought of commerce; the inventor awakes with the thought of his inventions; the banker with the thought of money.  But you, when you awake, must at once think of God and begin the day with an earnest desire to attain to the will of God and His good pleasure."
"Man must be freed from every material tie and must seek the path of the Kingdom.  He must not look backward, he must look forward; not downward, but heavenward."
"The meditative faculty is akin to the mirror; if you put it before earthly objects it will reflect them.  Therefore if the spirit of man is contemplating earthly subjects he will be informed of these.
"But if you turn the mirror of your spirits heavenwards, the heavenly constellations and the rays of the Sun of Reality will be reflected in your hearts, and the virtues of the Kingdom will be obtained."13
"We should not be occupied with our failings and weaknesses, but concern ourselves with the will of God so that it may flow through us, thereby healing these human infirmities."
"Neglect not praying and communing in the gloomy midnights and at morn and eve, and offer glory unto thy Lord the
page 166
Supreme."
"Know that nothing will benefit thee in this life save supplication and invocation unto God, service in His vineyard, and, with a heart full of love, be in constant servitude unto Him."14
"Draw nigh unto God and persevere in communion with thy Lord so that the fire of God's love may glow more luminously in the heart, its heat may grow stronger and give warmth to that region and its sound reach the Supreme Concourse."15
'Abu'l-Fadl, the Bahá'í saint and philosopher, one of the most brilliant scholars of his age, prayed, we are told, seven times every day.  Great souls keep strong by reading and prayer.  When he went into exile, Bahá'u'lláh gave him the following prayer to be repeated whenever he was in need:  "O my God!  I beg of Thee by the King of Names and Maker of heaven and earth, by the rustling of the leaves of the Tree of Life, and by the Utterances through which the realities of things are drawn unto us, to grant me ...."
The joy of prayer
"There is nothing sweeter in the world of existence than prayer."
"Prayer and supplication are two wings whereby man soars toward the heavenly mansion of the True One.  However, verbal repetition of prayer does not suffice.  One must live in a continual attitude of prayer.  When man is spiritually free his mind becomes the altar and his heart the sanctuary of prayer.  Then the meaning of the verse, 'We will lift up from before his eyes the veil' will become fulfilled in him."
__________
"It is most difficult to stand unshaken during the days of trials.  When we were living in Baghdád conditions at one time were such that the friends of God were always in danger of losing their lives.  Not a night passed during which they were sure that they would be alive in the morning and not a morning did they arise with any certainty that they would see another night.  Yet they lived in the highest state of faithfulness, firmness, spirituality and attraction.  Áqá Ridá and seven others lived in one small room.  They rested, ate and slept in this one room.  Every night they had spiritual meetings, chanting prayers and poems till long past midnight.  Often their food consisted of a few dates.  These Bahá'ís were peddlers in the bazaars.  Some of them sold nothing all day.  When in the evening they returned home they all pooled the few piastres which they had made and with that small sum bought their dinner.  Some days they made only twenty pares.  With this they bought dates and of them made their meal.  However, they were the richest men on the face of the earth.  They lived in a state of holiness, sanctity, attraction and devotion.
"There was a man, Pidar-Ján.  I cannot praise him enough.  He was the embodiment of spirituality.  He used to carry under his arm while walking in the bazaars a dozen pairs of stockings, hoping to sell them.  But, forgetting his surroundings, he would slowly chant the communes (prayers).  Then someone would come up softly, behind him, and take the stockings from under his arm.  If a customer wanted a pair of stockings Pidar-Ján would look under his arm-but there would be nothing there.  So he thought he would carry the stockings on the palms of his hands.  Again he would become absorbed, reading the supplications, and again the stockings would be stolen without his knowledge."-Words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá recorded by Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb.
How prayer becomes real
In all centuries those who have learned the spiritual laws prepare for prayer by reading or repeating sentences through which a saint or prophet has reflected the effulgence of the Holy Spirit.  The great Manifestations of God reveal prayers which are ablaze with divine love, which melt the heart, and usher one into the
page 167
court of the Eternal Presence.  The heavenly books are like a city, writes Bahá'u'lláh.  "What shall we mention of the signs, tokens, appearances and splendours ordained in that city by the command of the King of Names and Attributes.  It quenches thirst without water and increases the heat of the love of God without fire. ...  It bestows wealth without gold and grants immortality without death. ...  This city is renewed and adorned every thousand years, more or less.  Therefore, O my friend, we must make an effort to attain to that city."
The more one reads with "longing, fervour, with love, rapture, attraction and devotion" the sooner does "the Ideal Herald" "dawn like the true morn from the Divine City with spiritual glad tidings and awaken the heart, soul and spirit from the sleep of negligence with the trumpet of knowledge."  "Those who earnestly endeavour in the path of God after severance from all else will become so attracted to that city that they will not abandon it for an instant."
The prayer that is answered
"There are many subjects which are difficult for man to solve, but during prayer and supplication they are revealed."  "Muhammad said, 'Prayer is a ladder by which everyone can ascend to heaven'; if one's heart is cut from the world his prayers are the means of the ascension."
"If our ruling desire binds us to God we shall receive what is God-like.  'I link myself to God and not to dust.'  If one prays to be whole (perfect), on God's part the answer is eternally complete.  We must fulfil the conditions to expect God to fulfil His promises.  To pray is to lift the soul into union with the Eternal Goodness.  Wholeness is the natural result of abiding in God."
Prayer and service
In the supreme adjustment one turns the glory received from prayer into the channel of daily business and service to the Kingdom.  "Go," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a student coming to America, "with the intention and aim of teaching the Cause of God and spreading the fragrances of God.  Then thy study and worldly affairs will both prosper."
__________
"O God!  O God!  Cause me to drink from the cup of Thy bestowal.  Illumine my face with the light of guidance.  Make me firm in faithfulness and steadfastness in Thine Ancient Covenant.  Suffer me to become one of Thy sincere servants.  Open before my face the doors of prosperity.  Prepare for me the means of livelihood.  Give me my bread through channels over which I have no control, Thy heavenly treasures.  Grant me the power to turn my face toward Thy merciful Countenance, to be faithful to Thy Cause.
"O Thou Clement and Compassionate One!  Verily, Thou art gracious to those who are firm and steadfast in Thy strong and impregnable Covenant.  Praise be to God, the Lord of the worlds!"
__________
"The Essence of Oneness is sanctified above the servitude of the world of mankind and independent of the devotion of all else.  One should, therefore, engage in serving His servants, which act is identical with serving Him.  Then will the essential unity, harmony and oneness become manifest and unveil their beauty."
When work becomes worship
In the coming spiritual renaissance, the glorious Day of God which is now dawning, work, study and scientific research when performed in a spirit of unselfish service will be accounted as worship.  Such is the new Bahá'í teaching.  It all depends upon the motive, the pure intention.  "We should do little things as well as great things for the love of God," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "Service in the love of mankind is unity with God.  He who serves has already entered the Kingdom and is seated at the right hand of his Lord."  "Bahá'u'lláh has even said that occupation and labour are devotion.  All humanity must obtain a
page 168
livelihood by sweat of the brow and bodily exertion, at the same time seeking to lift the burden of others, striving to be the source of comfort to souls and facilitating the means of living.  This in itself is devotion to God.  Bahá'u'lláh has thereby encouraged action and stimulated service.  But the energies of the heart must not be attached to these things; the soul must not be completely occupied with them.  Though the mind is busy, the heart must be attracted toward the Kingdom of God in order that the virtues of humanity may be attained from every direction and source."16
"A profession, a trade, farming, these are worshipping God.  A farmer who cultivates his land with the utmost application is like a worshipper who with deepest reverence and humility prays to God in a temple.  When the labourer works honestly and sincerely it is as though he were praying."  "Every soul who occupies himself in an art or trade," wrote Bahá'u'lláh, "this will be accounted an act of worship before God."
Prayer in the peace of solitude or worship in the spiritual meeting will prepare for the prayer without ceasing in home or shop, school or office.
"Mayest thou ever be in a prayerful attitude," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a friend who was seeking the radiant pathway of the spiritual life.  "In all the worlds of existence there is nothing more important than prayer."


XIV:6, September 1923
page 168
Divine contentment
This Tablet to Mr and Mrs Rabb of San Francisco was found by Shoghi Effendi among the papers of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, after 'Abdu'l-Bahá's ascension.  It was unsigned, also no date was attached.
He is God!
O ye faithful ones of the Holy Threshold!
Your letter, which was expressive of your supplications to the Holy Threshold was received.  Thanks be to God, that you have remained firm in spite of all the trying temptations.
This material world of ours is a world of contrasts.  It has in itself abundance and destitution, joy and sorrow, youth and old age.  It is all the time changing and one has to undergo these different stages.  Hence it behoves every faithful person to be patient and to be grateful for that which he receives.
It is fitting for those in the Kingdom to be satisfied with their fate and look only toward the increase of the heavenly spark in their hearts for this, alone, will give them rest and consolation.  And you, too, should endeavour to increase that spiritual flame, known as the love of God, for through its increase you will enter into a new world of love and contentment.
I beseech the Lord to help you to overcome these hard conditions and to bestow upon you abundance of gifts from His bounties.
I think of you always and pray for you.  Be comforted, and trust in the mercy of the Merciful One, for it is said, "He who is not contented with what he receives, let him seek a God other than Me."
Therefore we have to be contented and devote our time to the worship and the praise of our God.
Upon you be my greetings.
Translated 19 May 1922, by Mírzá As'ad, a Persian student attending the California State University, Berkeley, California.


XIV:6, September 1923
page 169
A note on morality
Horace Holley
Like a boat laid up alongside a rapid stream, our impulse continually feels the tug of a current flowing past, a current in whose urgent flow it seems natural for impulse to be cast, a current in which impulse continually does cast itself.  Refreshed and renewed by journeys down this current, journeys long or short, impulse lies again just outside its urge, like a boat drawn to the bank.  But the stream never ceases to flow by, its invitation never relaxes its instinctive appeal.
In the current of custom, popular manners, social convention and use, our personal impulses find their most lasting and most urgent expression.  Traced to their source, few impulses are personal at all.  Few leap cleanly from the man himself, his own expression; most impulses are drawn forth from the man by outside forces-they express the environment immediately about him; for the man, they are impressions so urgent as to require response.  Society is the continual, strong current tugging at the boat of our lives.  In impulse released we feel a personal vitality and purpose, an enlargement of personal consciousness; but the release of impulse down the social current brings only a reflected self into being.  With the dissolve of the determining conditions, the vitality and purpose also dissolve.  They disappear like images from a mirror when the room is emptied of its things.  The realization of this comes seldom enough, for almost invariably new images immediately replace the old.  The ordinary person's habitual self, his reflected self, seems real enough year on year and life on life.  For seldom is the room actually emptied of its things before the mirror of mind.  When, in sickness or catastrophe, the mirror finds nothing before it to reflect, its own emptiness becomes dreadfully acute.  For this extraordinary thing does happen to ordinary people to feel one's self ebb slowly but completely away.  The social current does stop unexpectedly from flowing past the boat of our impulse; and when this happens, the boat lies deep enough in mud, unable to follow.  This extraordinary sense of losing the sense of ordinary things actually occurs more than once in every one's experience.  It happens to us all, but it is an experience we do not communicate to others.  The failure of personal impulse to move on the current of reality seems to each one a unique, individual failure.  It is a universal experience, but it is never considered universally.  We regard it as an experience special and particular to ourselves.  It is not a pleasant experience.
But the result is that we continue to take the power supplied to impulse from the attractions environmental to impulse, as a power resident in impulse itself.  We invariably hasten our thoughts over this painful lapse of self, and dwell rather upon the occasions when impulse seemed most successfully to seize its own in the outer world.  The fact remains, however, that personal impulse is rather passively effective, like a boat, than actively effective, like a stream.  The stream takes the boat so completely within its own movement that the movement seems from the boat itself.  The boat's own lack of motivity only emerges as a perceptible fact when the stream turns away out of reach.
At such times, if we face the experience squarely enough, impulse actually weakens and fails like a boat out of water.  The social needs dry up first, but the personal needs fade out soon after them.  Eating and drinking, apparently personal beyond the range of social influence, become faint and tepid
page 170
functions as soon as imitation is completely removed.  Life settles down into a state of passive torpor-we continue to be, but our being is not our self-our "natural self"-at all.  The lover who expects to find his mistress at the rendezvous, and awaits her in vain, feels all his vitality ebb away.  The mother who loses a child undergoes this experience.  The miser is a mere nothing without his wealth.  These extreme cases are extreme simply because in each one the social environment has concentrated into a single influence.  To remove that influence, in these cases, is to remove the entire experienceable world.
But if we face that experience earnestly enough another fact grows apparent.  As the tide of social influence runs out, leaving personal impulse high and dry, another tide seems to flow in.  The boat of personal impulse seems to rise upon the current of another stream.  This other stream seems to flow within the man himself.  It seems to flow less urgently, and before the boat has ridden fairly upon it the unusual condition of things usually changes.  The accustomed world swings back, bringing the sense of relief as from a crisis more difficult even than the sense of failure as of a boat in mud.
For some, however, the world swings back too late.  It flows in with the old currents of influence after the new current has become a fact.  The boat has gone [on] a new journey, through landscapes more desirable, on a stronger tide.  The "self" that ebbed away has been recovered, a new "self" the man would not willingly yield.
This hidden inner current, so unreal to the world, is the reality of religion.  It is the reality which ordinarily, in comparison with the ease of impulse down the currents of convention, seems an upstream effort, tedious and vain.  Of what use to struggle against a current so strong that one's greatest effort only holds one ever in the same spot?  It is evident enough, at any rate, that the two currents flow in opposite directions.  The downstream of the world is the upstream of the soul.  But the spiritual current has its own downstream.  It has its own forceful currents which, under the right conditions, carry the boat of impulse not less easily along.  It has the same power of communicating its own force to the boat so imperceptibly that the boat's movement seems from the boat itself and not from the stream.  But "duty", as opposed to desire; the lonely effort of attainment as opposed to the genial grace of imitation, do not become aware of this fact.  One only becomes aware of it when, somehow, the stream of spiritual experience takes complete possession of the soul.  Then it is convention which seems upstream.  Then the sense of struggle, the sense of futility, attaches itself to the world; and to join the common activity, urged to it merely by imitation, becomes repugnant and impossible.  The soul's own life, of attainment, becomes natural, inevitable, successive acts of self-expression whereby personal impulse is gratified as never before.
The clear, definite statement seem hypothesis more than experience merely because, in almost every one of us, the boat of impulse lies much farther out in the stream of convention than in the stream of faith.  The direction of the forces exerting upon impulse for imitation seem to determine the "upstream" and the "downstream" of experience because they press against a greater area of our being.  For those few in all generations whose lives have lain more in faith than in convention, religion has been downstream and the world upstream.
Nothing is so important to realize in this matter of morality.  It is the truth at the heart of experience; it is the basis of reality in life; and misconceptions in this region work havoc for the whole of experience at all times.  The universal belief that the religious life is a life upstream has dwarfed religion to insignificance in our social development.
page 171
We have employed as the working hypothesis of religion throughout our civilization the impression that personal impulse is gratified and justified through convention, but negated and made futile through religion.  This impression derives from the experience of minds still adrift on the conventional stream-their sense of struggle, as against a mighty, unresting tide, is actually a struggle not against the spiritual requirement but against the social habit.  They have never swung fairly out on the other current.
If we establish our moral truth upon the experience of those who have attained, we vivify it as by the transfusion of living blood to a desperate body.  For the struggle against the stream of convention-when one struggles full in the stream itself-is really a futile effort.  But this is precisely what religion amounts to in most lives:  an occasional struggle against a stream dimly perceived to be leading one's life to emptiness and desolation.  The first step toward spiritual reality consists in leaving the stream of imitation itself.  It is least effective when taken against the stream; most effective when taken away from the stream.  For outside the currents of social imitation other currents, even more rapid, await.  As one swings the boat of impulse into the current of faith, a greater power than impulse or will perfects the act.  The difficulties of religion are not difficulties inherent to spiritual development-they are inherent in leaving the stream of social convention.  Spiritual development brings its own downstream, whence the joy of self-gratification amply returns.
The psychologist usually builds consciousness upon two factors, habit and imitation.  But these two factors are really one.  Habit is the imitation of oneself.  The dominant factor, then, is imitation.  Imitation like momentum, tends to carry experience along a straight line.  So borne, experience confirms itself at every point.  The inability to realize that the strongest habit is but imitation of self many times repeated, proves that we drift unconsciously into a being limited on all sides save the direction of its own definite movement.  As momentum gathers weight, the influence exerted to swing experience from the straight line grows continually more ineffective.  Thus most of us fail to perceive that the essential nature of experience is dual rather than single.  As a matter of fact, consciousness has a double pull, a pull now in one direction, and a pull later on in the opposite direction.  Habit merges these two definite forces into one, thus destroying the particular contribution each brings.  Habit does not only destroy the value of the spiritual impulse in life-it even destroys the value of the worldly or social impulse.
Were each impulse to be given its own terms of influence, life would not be an experience laid out straight along, like a narrow artificial road; it would be a continual ascent, as one ascends a winding staircase in a tower.  To follow out each impulse cleanly and courageously in its turn, is to spend the force of each so that the other force can exert itself effectively.  The religious "habit" is quite as impoverishing to experience as the social "habit".  In those whose lives respond to needs more vital than habits, the impulse of activity carries them on until that impulse is spent, when the impulse to meditation naturally arises.  The normal life-the life that is normal to the inner standard and not merely to the standard of the majority of people-ascends from activity to meditation, but then ascends likewise from meditation to activity.  It goes from one phase to the other ever around and upward, from stage to stage of the tower.  The phase of meditation enriches the activity just experienced-gathers it up and gives it meaning and value-but also prepares new forces for activity to draw upon.  Likewise, the active phase enriches the meditation just experienced-enriches it by bringing its purposes and
page 172
its meanings into effect.  It is as though meditation created the vision of a picture, and activity laid the vision upon canvas.  The two phases are absolutely reciprocal.  On the other hand, it is as though such activity emptied the mind and heart of their pressing fullness, preparing the way for another and greater vision.  To be normal, then, a life would continually ascend the tower, pausing a little at each landing to look from the window-looking out now on one side, now on the other-but ever urged upward, and from the higher landing obtaining a wider and clearer outlook.  This is the normal experience, the experience which our own lives attempt to create for us-a rich, eager experience, ever renewed and ever deepened, fed on the bread of physical toil and gladdened by the wine of mystery in revelation.  For the tower has many stages.  Meditation and faith return again and again, subtler and larger, clearer eyed.  And activity returns again, ever more refined, ever more truly expressing the creative urgency of the soul.  No man can exhaust the wonders of the tower of experience.  It rises high above the city of commonplace.  It rises to the heavens.  It is not a tower built up stone by stone from the earth; it is a tower let down from the throne of God.
One further remarks of morality, therefore, that the essence of experience is movement and change, while the one obviously immoral thing is standing still.  The extreme of immorality is to stand still at any stage of the tower-whether the stage be that of activity, or meditation.  It is quite as terrible to spend a lifetime at being "religious" as at unrestingly laying up gold.  It is more immoral, for the example is more disastrous to others.  The most depressing spectacle in the world is not the worldly who will not ascend above their material wealth-it is the supposedly spiritual folk who will not ascend beyond their stagnant "unworldliness".
In a true civilization, labour and religion are the two pillars of existence.  They are the two pillars that stand so close they become one.  Your really religious man merges labour and meditation inseparably one in the other.  They are the indrawn and the outdrawn breaths that keep the blood pure.  Both would be taken for granted, and the relation of each to the other would be taken for granted.  Pure blood compels the reciprocal indrawing and outdrawing of breath.  Where labour is not a form of worship, and where religion is not the inspiration and control of labour, the blood of life is impure.  Life is not life, but sickness.
Yet health is the normal condition of life, while sickness is the abnormal.  In every life the instinct to pass from activity to meditation, from meditation to activity, exists and exerts itself.  It exerts itself forever throughout life, but becomes the knocking of a child's hand against a barred door.  Habit denies this vital instinct its full expression.  As habit increases-habit which is nothing more than self-imitation-the instinct urges in vain.  The instinct continues year after year, though the knocking sounds fainter and fainter.  We build the wall thicker and higher with time, until finally the sound no longer reaches through.
Were we conscious of movement upward in the tower on the part of the lives around us, we ourselves would instinctively ascend.  Our all-powerful sense of imitation would respond to truth as completely as it now responds to ignorance.  No element in mind or heart would have to change to make us worthy of the true civilization.  All the elements necessary to enjoy that civilization, to maintain and develop that civilization, are present in men.  The difference between war and peace, between poverty and free self-expression, does not imply an impossible or even improbable making over of human nature.  It implies rather the response of human
page 173
nature to its own hidden truth.  Were there a soul who had mounted the tower to its very top, who had gone through every intervening experience, making each phase his own, then from the top signalled to us standing dejected below-signalled as with a mighty trumpet blown from the forgotten depths of our own souls, should we not gaze upward?  Should we not see before us the easy ascent of the Way?  Should we not hear the trumpet, hear it-and believe?
The true civilization-its existence, its nearness, its inevitableness-sounds like a clear trumpet in the life and words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.


XIV:6, September 1923
page 173
The glory of deeds
Jináb-i-Fádil
The following narration tells of the glorious martyrdom of three Bahá'í heroes, one a child of twelve, another a youth of seventeen, the third a celebrated poet.
When we view martyrdom from the physical point of view we see only "the destruction of life".  But when we behold it from the spiritual point of view it becomes the most perfect manifestation of love and faith the heart can conceive for here the lover of God, the lover of mankind gives his all that the Kingdom of peace may appear in the world.  "Deeds speak louder than words."  They make words real.  "True words," said Bahá'u'lláh, "are verified by action.  One without the other will not satisfy the thirsty or open the doors of perception before the blind."
Martyrdom makes the spirit of utter dedication to the service of God so real that it ignites in other hearts a like flame of divine devotion.  The martyrdom of Christ on the cross conquered and changed the hearts of untold millions.  True martyrdom is the greatest spiritual educator in the world of existence.
An American business man tells of how he was travelling in Persia.  He saw a Bahá'í brought forth to execution.  He was tied with his chest to a cannon's mouth.  A great crowd assembled.  The Bahá'í turned to his executioner:  "Grant me one request before I enter the heavenly world," he said.  "What is it?" asked the executioner.  "Turn me around that the crowd may see how happy I am to die in the pathway of God," replied the man.
The executioner turned him around and blew his body from the cannon's mouth.
"I saw that," said the American business man, "with my own eyes.  When I want a religion I am going to be a Bahá'í for there is a religion that has power in it."-Editor.
__________
There were thousands of martyrs to this Cause many of whom shine with a brilliance like the sun, dispelling the darkness of night.  Among those of great renown was Badí', the messenger who carried the epistle of Bahá'u'lláh to the Sháh of Persia.  During the reign of this Sháh thousands of believers were martyred.  This was because enemies of the Cause impressed upon his mind the idea that this great Cause purposed to overthrow the government of Persia and to establish another form of government; therefore the Sháh feared lest the believers were plotting against him.  As soon as he heard that a person was connected, even remotely with the Cause an order was sent to do away with him.
In 1852 he issued an edict that every believer within his domain should be put to the sword, sparing no one.  Accordingly, in every city of Persia many believers were thrown into prison and martyred, the greatest of these persecutions taking place in Tihrán.
page 174
Now, a few years after his incarceration in the fortress city of 'Akká, Bahá'u'lláh revealed a long and detailed epistle for this Sháh of Persia.  Those who have studied it realize that this epistle is a heavenly book containing scientific and spiritual teachings.  Bahá'u'lláh purposed to send this Tablet by a messenger who would give it into the Sháh's own hands for it was a well-known fact that the courtiers around him did their utmost to keep the words of Bahá'u'lláh from his ears, saying that these words had such a power that, should the Sháh listen to them, his heart would be changed.  Therefore Bahá'u'lláh planned to send this Tablet by a messenger who would carry it to the Sháh himself.
When Bahá'u'lláh revealed the Tablet he wrote upon it certain conditions.  First, before the bearer accepted the commission he must realize that in accomplishing it he would be killed with severest torture and that he must show utmost steadfastness and assurance.  Secondly when on his way to Persia, and in Persia, he must associate with no believers for after the king had apprehended him his deputies would undoubtedly try to find out the names of the believers with whom he was associated in order to seize and kill them also.  This was the wisdom of the command of Bahá'u'lláh.  He must from the very beginning of his journey meet no believers so that he could declare truthfully that he knew no one of them.  The third condition was that he should deliver the epistle with his own hand into the hands of the Sháh.
Now Badí' was a youth of seventeen, and at that time was in 'Akká and in the presence of Bahá'u'lláh.  Before his arrival in 'Akká, His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh told his followers there that the messenger who was to carry this Tablet to the Sháh would ere long arrive.
One day, when some friends were gathered together His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh took the Tablet and holding it in his hand, said:  "Who is the one who will carry this to the Sháh of Persia?"
Badí', like a flame of fire, sprang from his seat and bowing down before Bahá'u'lláh said:  "I will carry this Tablet."  Bahá'u'lláh asked the question a second time; and the youth repeated his supplication.
Bahá'u'lláh called the third time, and the third time Badí' petitioned that he might carry the Tablet.
So Bahá'u'lláh gave him the wonderful Tablet, and took it, and started on his great mission.
Badí' went to Mount Carmel from the presence of Bahá'u'lláh, where he engaged in supplication and prayer as though in preparation to meet God.  There were with him two other believers.
He dressed in a long white garment and would stand in an attitude of humility, facing 'Akká.  He seemed like a thirsty man searching for cool and refreshing water.  Bahá'u'lláh sent from his presence in the care of one of the believers two small packages to be delivered to Badí', who arose, accepted them in his hands, kissed them reverently and thanked God with great exaltation.  The two friends felt that these packages must contain some special command for the service of the Cause, and they asked if it would be possible for Badí' to let them read their contents.  But he replied:  "I have no time," and immediately set out on his journey to Persia.
He did not tarry at all nor rest upon the way but with patience and utmost perseverance followed the instructions of Bahá'u'lláh.  One of the old believers, now living, met the young man on the journey and wondered concerning his great abstraction.  This man said that every now and then Badí' would steal away.  "Once I followed him," he said, "to find out what he was doing.  Then I saw that he prostrated himself upon the ground, facing 'Akká, and prayed with utmost reverence.  After I heard the story of his martyrdom I realized that he was offering prayers of thanksgiving."
When Badí' arrived at the gate of Tihrán, the capital of Persia, the Sháh
page 175
was out of the city on a hunting trip.  So Badí' mounted a hill on this plain outside the city and stood there in his white garment with the Tablet of Bahá'u'lláh in his hand.  For three days and three nights he stood motionless upon the hill.  The Sháh, scanning the country with his field glasses, looked at him many times and at last, filled with curiosity, sent some of his men to bring the youth to him that he might learn of his errand.  The messengers inquired of Badí' what he wanted and Badí' replied that he had a very important letter for the Sháh of Persia and he wished to be allowed to deliver it with his own hand.  They tried their utmost to get the Tablet from him but Badí' would not give it up.  So they returned to the Sháh who ordered that Badí' be brought to him.  Thus Badí' at last attained his utmost desire-and delivered the Tablet into the very hands of the Sháh.
The Sháh realized at once that it was from Bahá'u'lláh.  He became very much enraged and, with his attendants, insisted that Badí' reveal the names of the believers with whom he was associated.  The courtiers began to beat and injure him, and Badí' gave thanks to God, exclaiming:  "At last I have attained to the station of martyrdom which Bahá'u'lláh prophesied upon this Tablet."
He ordered the officers to take the young man away.  So they took him, and branded him with hot irons.  Badí', to the utter amazement of those who tortured him cried out, in wonderful joy:  "You have branded but one side.  Would you not like to brand the other also that I may have this fire of suffering all through my body!"  They were so astonished that they reported the matter to the Sháh, saying:  "Here is no human being.  No matter how much we brand him he does not tell the name of any believer but shows still greater happiness."  The Sháh replied:  "Take his photograph and bring it to me."  So while they burned Badí' with hot irons they took his photograph.  This photograph exists today, among us.
Then the Sháh commanded that he be put to death immediately and that no one be shown his photograph lest that one become a believer.  Thus the prophecy of Bahá'u'lláh, written upon the Tablet, was fulfilled.
Later on the Sháh read the epistle of Bahá'u'lláh, and a wonderful change took place in him.  He understood then that the great purpose of this Cause is to establish universal peace, universal brotherhood and universal reconciliation, that this Cause has appeared in order that all mankind may be united in spiritual oneness and brotherhood.  Therefore he never again, personally, interfered with the believers nor himself persecuted them.
His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh in this great Tablet addresses the Sháh thus:  "Will you invite the mullás and learned men to meet together and allow me to come also?  I will present myself and the mullás may ask of me any sign which would make them realize the station of this Cause.  If these signs are manifested from me, well and good; if not, then you may do with me what you wish."
The Sháh sent the Tablet to the mullás of Tihrán, asking what they would do.
They made no answer to the Tablet of Bahá'u'lláh, which proved to the Sháh that these enemies were unjust and prejudiced.
Badí' was but one of the many martyrs in this Cause who showed their love for it with fortitude and steadfastness.
__________
Another martyrdom unique to this Revelation is that of Varqá, the poet, and his twelve year old son.
Varqá asked of Bahá'u'lláh the meaning of a verse in the Book of Aqdas which refers to the appointment of 'Abdu'l-Bahá as the Centre of the Covenant:  "When the ocean of My presence hath ebbed and the Book of My Revelation is ended, turn your faces toward Him Whom God hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root."17  Bahá'u'lláh replied that the meaning of this verse is 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Therefore from that time Varqá with all his heart loved the Master.
page 176
Varqá constantly supplicated Bahá'u'lláh that he might attain to the station of martyrdom, and finally his petition was granted.  As this promise, however, was not fulfilled during the lifetime of Bahá'u'lláh, after Bahá'u'lláh's departure from this world Varqá made his request to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Varqá was a well known teacher, an illumined speaker and a peerless poet.  His poems speak of the love of God and are of such high spiritual quality that they lift the reader to wonderful heights.  In several of them he prophesies his own martyrdom.
His son, Rúhu'lláh, was a youthful genius, a speaker and a teacher of great power and persuasiveness.  At the age of twelve years he wrote beautiful poems.  He was a brilliant child.  Because he was so young and so full of joy and enthusiasm when he went to see Bahá'u'lláh he (Bahá'u'lláh) would sometimes joke with him and ask him questions.  Now and then he would call him "the teacher".  One day Bahá'u'lláh said to him:  "You have a great gift for teaching.  Now suppose that Promised One of the Muslims should appear, the One who, according to tradition is like an eagle, and will guide the people to the Kingdom.  If this One appears what will you do?"
"Through the confirmation of Bahá'u'lláh," replied the boy, "I will teach him and make him a believer."
Varqá with his young son started on a campaign of teaching, in Persia.  They arrived at a city whose Governor was a very cruel and merciless man.  The people quickly brought to this Governor reports that Varqá was a brilliant teacher and that he carried with him much wealth.  This wealth consisted of fifty volumes of the writings of Bahá'u'lláh and was indeed very precious.  In addition to the spiritual value of these books they had, truly, material value, for they were written on the best of paper and were embellished and bound.
The Governor sent his officer and had Varqá and his son taken prisoners.  When they examined his possessions the Governor saw that Varqá had no wealth, only a few volumes.  Varqá, who longed to give him the message of the Kingdom, now began to teach him, and begged the Governor to invite the 'Ulamás and the scholars of the city that he might speak with them.  He would, he said, prove to them the validity of this Cause from the text of all the heavenly scriptures and writings.  The Governor granted his request and the learned men assembled.  Then Varqá and his twelve year old son spoke to them.  The boy was so eloquent and persuasive that the Governor and many of the people became greatly attracted.  The Sháh now sent a telegram that these two believers be sent immediately to the capital.
In Tihrán they were held captive, in a large mansion.  Here some of the believers visited them secretly.  At that time Varqá wrote a letter to the believers of Tihrán in which he said that, in keeping with the promise of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá it would seem as though the time was drawing near when he should attain to the station of martyrdom, yet, judging from the kindness and respect with which the Sháh and the Prime Minister treated him and the fact that they had put him in such a mansion, he could see no evidence of the approach of martyrdom.  Evidently this delay was due to his inability to attain to that high station.
After a while the chief courtier, a very cruel man, carried a report to the Sháh which resulted in an order to put Varqá and his son in prison.  From this prison Varqá wrote a letter to the Sháh requesting him to invite all the learned men to a meeting and to permit him, also, to attend this gathering.  The Sháh sent this chief courtier, who had given evidence against him, to Varqá to inquire how he wished the meeting arranged.  When the courtier entered the prison room and heard from Varqá's own lips his request for this meeting he became very angry, and said:  "Do you think to spread the
page 177
teachings of Bahá'u'lláh throughout the world?"
While these things were happening to Varqá the fiftieth anniversary of the reign of the Sháh occurred.  The Sháh wished to make a great celebration of this event; so he planned feasts and parades and demonstrations.  In order to do honour to his anniversary the Sháh, himself, paid a visit to one of the holy Shrines outside the capital.  There a revolutionist, just arrived in Persia, hid himself.  From this hiding place he shot and killed the Sháh.
Upon hearing the news of the Sháh's death the chief courtier went to the prison of Varqá and his son and began to upbraid them.  Then he drew his sword and cut Varqá to pieces before the eyes of his young son.
To the boy he said:  "You have now seen how your father has been killed.  Recant your beliefs and I will give you the highest position in the kingdom."  The boy replied:  "I have no other hope save martyrdom.  My father has trained me all these years that I may reach to this great station."  Then the boy, also, was murdered.
The tree of the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh was watered with the blood of these divine souls.  Under this tree all the children of men will find rest and peace.
The heavenly artists
When 'Abdu'l-Bahá was in London, in 1913, among his many callers was an actress who spoke to him of the theatre and her work.  "We also have a theatre," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  The actress immediately became all interest and enthusiasm.  "Yes, where is it?" she said.  "I should love to see it.  Can I play in it?"
"Our theatre," 'Abdu'l-Bahá answered, smiling, "is built in a country where there is eternal springtime.  The streets of that city are as clean as the surface of a mirror.  The lights of that playhouse are the rays of the Sun of Reality, the actors of our drama are the Holy Manifestations of God, the audience is composed of pure and sanctified souls.  They play their parts with the most delicate art.  They deliver their words with power and potency.  The stage of our theatre is the arena upon which is played the sublimest tragedy, the most terrible drama, the most thrilling and heart-moving events of life.
"Come and join our company.  You have acted all your life upon the material stage.  Now come and act on this celestial stage.  Your fellow actors will assist you, will coach you in your part and, step by step, you will become a star shining in the galaxy of those heavenly inspired dramatists."
A musician visited 'Abdu'l-Bahá in London and asked for spiritual confirmation in the study of music.
"There are two kinds of music," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá "divine and earthly music.  Divine music exhilarates the spirit, while earthly music has an effect upon the body.  Divine music belongs to the Kingdom of God, earthly music is of the mundane world.  I hope you will be confirmed to study both kinds of music so that you may be able to sing the anthems of heaven and the songs of this world."
To a portrait painter of New York City, who was in 'Akká, Palestine, with a party of visitors, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, picturing in glowing words the work of the heavenly artist:  "As to your art, it is one of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh that art is identical with an act of worship, and you must go on with your art and improve in it; and through this very Cause you will be able to make great progress in your art, for you will be helped from above.  Say, 'I have two arts, one physical, the other spiritual.  The physical one is that I draw the images of men; my spiritual art is that I draw the images of the angels, and I hope that at last I shall
page 178
be able to draw pictures of the perfections of God.  My physical art will at last end, but my spiritual art is everlasting.  My physical art can be done by many, but my spiritual art is not the work of everyone.'
"Can you paint upon the page of the world the ideal pictures of the Celestial Concourse?  The pictures which are in the ideal world are eternal.  I wish you to become such an artist.  Man can paint those ideal pictures upon the tablet of existence with the brush of deeds.
"The holy, divine Manifestations are all heavenly artists.  Upon the canvas of creation, with the brush of their deeds and lives they paint immortal pictures which cannot be found in any art museum of Europe or America.  But you find the masterpieces of these spiritual artists in the hearts."


XIV:6, September 1923
page 180
'Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi
From a recent talk by Jináb-i-Fádil
When I was in Haifa I felt that 'Abdu'l-Bahá was planning to take a very long journey.  We did not, however, grasp its significance.  We thought that it was to be a physical journey.  We did not realize that it was to be to the Kingdom of Abhá.
One day, in the Pilgrim House, it was said that the physical appearance of 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed signs of weariness.  Some of us thought that this was due to the small amount of food which 'Abdu'l-Bahá ate.  He always divided the food among the guests, a symbol of the way in which he distributed spiritual sustenance.  He took almost nothing, himself, but a glass of milk or the yolk of an egg.
A group of friends were selected and their spokesman, a very old and spiritual Bahá'í went to 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Overcome with emotion at the question which he was about to present, he could not speak a word.  'Abdu'l-Bahá took him by the hand, and encouraged him.  The old man said:  "The believers feel that there are two reasons for 'Abdu'l-Bahá's weariness.  First, he does not eat enough.  Secondly, he works too hard."  Then 'Abdu'l-Bahá, very humbly, told him that he was mistaken.  "Do you think," he said, "that this material food has any effect upon my body?  This food has no effect.  Only good news from the believers, the glad tidings which comes from all parts of the world of the advancement of the Cause, of the unity of the believers, this, only, improves my health.  As to the second point-I am going to take a long journey and at that time my spirit will rest."
Later, we understood what the Master had meant.  These talks showed that 'Abdu'l-Bahá had finished his work, was preparing for the great journey to the Kingdom.
Another day 'Abdu'l-Bahá said that the Bahá'ís look to the light, many others look to the glass in which the light is shining.  The Bahá'ís appre-
page 181
hend the inner reality of man and the light of God which is living in the Being of the Manifestations of God; others look to the outward appearance or the garment of names.  The religionists who denied the Manifestations in the past clung to the garment, the glass, Bahá'ís turn to the reality of the light.
At the time when the Báb was being driven by his enemies from place to place there lived in a certain city a believer who had never seen him.  He had heard that the Báb wore a green turban, as did all the descendants of Muhammad.  This believer went to see the Báb, and he looked for the green turban.  It so happened that just before his arrival the Báb had taken off his green turban, putting on instead, a Persian cap.  So the man did not recognize him.  The Báb joked, saying:  "I have heard that you have become a believer in the new movement.  What has caused this change?"
The man answered:  "The proof of Muhammad was his eloquent Arabic book.  I have heard that this young man brought through revelation several eloquent Arabic and Persian epistles which have the spirit of the word of Muhammad."
The Báb said:  "Whoever thus reveals, you believe?"
He then began writing verses, like a crystal river.  The man, overwhelmed, cried out that such an one must be a Manifestation.  "But why does not he wear a green turban?"
So 'Abdu'l-Bahá showed us that we should judge not by the garment, but by the heart beneath.
When but a youth Bahá'u'lláh, dressed at that time, as a government official and not in the turban and flowing robes of the scholar, entered the classroom of a celebrated theologian.  Many students were there.  The teacher, who was deeply versed in religious philosophy, suggested, for discussion, some very difficult topics.  Immediately the class entered into controversy, many voices being raised; and the teacher was not satisfied with the discussion.
Bahá'u'lláh then asked permission to speak.  He soon solved the difficult problems.  All had heard that he had never attended a school; yet no sooner did he begin to speak than they realized that he was an ocean of thought whose waves washed the shores of every mind in that audience.  The teacher said:  Behold! you have all studied!  But here is one who has never studied, who gives luminous answers."
When Shoghi Effendi returned to Haifa many did not realize that, though dressed differently, though young, yet he was the perfect mirror reflecting 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  I was so fortunate as to be in Haifa when Shoghi Effendi arrived.  It was as though he brought an ocean of hope, activity and longing to serve and to sacrifice.  No sooner did he arrive than he began to write to all parts of the Bahá'í world.  One who met him saw in him the same will, the same love, the same tenderness, the same overpowering desire to serve that he saw in 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
In some of his last talks in Haifa, 'Abdu'l-Bahá said:  "After my departure there will be a short time of quiet in the Bahá'í Cause.  Then the flame of love and activity will leap forth and there will follow a great period of work, and proclamation of the Cause, of going out to all the highways and byways of the world."  This is coming to pass.  First, a great shock, a feeling of loss.  Now, since the return of Shoghi Effendi, and his correspondence with all parts of the world, there is a great resuscitation.  The advices and exhortations in the last Will and Testament of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that none must rest, but must teach-these are being realized in the visible world.
This is the first year of the mission of Shoghi Effendi.  To show him our great attraction in the Cause we must manifest great activity.  It behoveth us that in this year we engage in extraordinary service and walk steadfastly toward the city of universal peace and the oneness of hearts and minds.


XIV:7, October 1923
page 193
The life of the Báb
Jináb-i-Fádil18
Bordering on the Persian Gulf, in southern Persia, there is a very beautiful province, called Fárs.  This province is quite large and, centuries before Christ, was the seat of Persia's kings and rulers; it was also the home of the ancient Pársís.  It is celebrated in Persian literature as a veritable throne of learning.  Here, nearly seven hundred years ago, the great poets Háfiz and Sa'dí lived and died, and here they wrote their verses.  Their tombs or shrines are visited every year by many people.
In Shíráz, the capital of Farce, there lived a family, of the merchant class, who for many generations had been noted for their piety, morality and generosity.  Into this family there was born, in Shíráz, 20 October 1819, a child, the Báb.  The Báb's father, a merchant, died when the boy was quite young, and the eldest of his three uncles who was also a merchant, took care of him and brought him up.  The Báb's education was entirely elementary; and soon he went into business, becoming his uncle's partner.
As a child he gave signs of remarkable precocity and, while still very young, wrote beautiful essays in Persian and Arabic.  Those who read them were astonished at his knowledge for they were aware how meagre had been his education.  The Arabic scholars were especially interested in his writings in that language and thought it very extraordinary that one without learning could write such perfect Arabic.
After he went into business his family noticed what seemed to them certain unusual traits in the young man; he would depart at midday, retire to a secluded spot and meditate, chant and read prayers, spending hours in deep spiritual communion.  Observing this the Báb's family endeavoured to awaken in him a greater interest in acquiring wealth and fame, but they soon found that these things did not interest him.
In the Báb physical beauty was joined to that of the spirit.  His hair was black and his dark brown eyes shone like stars.  His features were symmetrical and his face most luminous.  His carriage was majestic, yet simple and humble.  The purity of his character was such that even his enemies could find no fault with him.  It would be hard to imagine a life more spotless, more devoted to love for humanity.  He reflected the light of the spirit and radiated to those around him such wonderful spiritual life that his superiority was generally recognized, and he was shown utmost honour and respect.  When he entered a room he was given the seat of honour and others, involuntarily, waited for him to speak first.  He was full of happiness, contentment and resignation; so it seemed as if the Spirit of God were shining from that young body.
page 194
A few years before his declaration, in 1844, he left his uncle's office and journeyed to Karbilá, Mesopotamia, the centre of the Shí'ih Muslim world.  The tomb of Husayn, the martyred grandson of Muhammad is in Karbilá, and every year thousands of people made a pilgrimage to this shrine, where long prayers were read.  When the Báb repeated his own prayers before the assemblage the people turned from the usual prayers and gave all their attention to him.  The Muslims had, in Arabic and Persian, many prayers which seemed to them beautiful beyond description.  Therefore they were prepared to recognize the sublime beauty and the inspiration of the Báb's prayers.  He remained in Karbilá several months and many people were drawn to him because of his inspired utterance and the holiness of his life.
At the age of twenty-three the Báb married a young girl, a relative of his family.  A little son was born to them who lived but a few months.  And shortly after, the Báb was apprehended and thrown into prison.
The religious outlook of the Muslim world had become very dark; the people had lost their spiritual vision and held to dogma as spiritual truth.  About this time God inspired the hearts of a number of men to look deeper into their religion and study its true meaning.  This school of men in their teachings made frequent mention of a Star of Guidance which was about to dawn.  In 1843 they set out on a journey to the distant parts of Persia to try and discover this Master of the New Age.  Before starting they gathered together in a mosque and for forty days fasted that they might be prepared for the momentous journey.  They had been taught that there were nineteen proofs by which they might recognize the Great Master, the coming One, one of which was his spiritual power which, even if he spoke not a word, would draw the people to him.  This power they were to find in the person of a handsome youth.  They made a compact that he who discovered the Truth should at once communicate it to the others.  Then they started off, in different directions.
Mullá Husayn, a very celebrated and learned man was one of this group.  He remembered having met at Karbilá a singularly spiritual youth, who came from Shíráz, and he decided to journey to Shíráz and try to find him.  Arriving in that city he made inquiries which led him to the young man's home.  To his great joy the door was opened by the Báb, himself, who welcomed him as a guest and bade him enter.  Then the Báb told him how, when about to leave home early that morning for his office, there had come to him the foreknowledge that great and glorious news was about to be made known.  He knew that the coming of this guest was a part of the good news.  So, here in the rose garden of the Báb's home, was laid the foundation of the Great Cause.
The Báb inquired of Mullá Husayn by what sign would he recognize the Great Star.  And Mullá Husayn gave the nineteen proofs.
Suddenly the Báb said:  "Do you see these signs in me?"
Mullá Husayn was made almost breathless by the question.  However, after a moment's consideration he said:  "Yes, I see all the signs but one in you.  That one sign is this:  the Great One should have extraordinary knowledge.  This important sign of wisdom and knowledge I do not see in you."  He said this, thinking that great knowledge must be acquired in colleges and universities.
The Báb talked of other matters, tea was served, and the hours passed.
Later, while conversing upon very spiritual subjects, the Báb again said:  "Do you see these signs in me?"
Mullá Husayn did not make immediate reply but led the conversation into channels which it seemed to him must make apparent this knowledge.
page 195
The Báb then left the room, and Mullá Husayn, seeing some books upon the table, took one up and began reading.  He was astonished to find that both the ideas and phraseology were entirely new and unfolded the divine mysteries.  He read page after page and when the Báb returned inquired the name of the author of the book.
The Báb replied:  "A young man."
Mullá Husayn exclaimed:  "Read some of these words yourself!  Who has written them?"
The Báb said:  "You see.  You see."
Then he placed the book beside him, and began to speak eloquently, in a higher language.  The words flowed from him like a river.  Mullá Husayn listened spellbound, for these were the erudite phrases of the book.  He became so intoxicated with divine joy that he was like a man beside himself; so the Báb again spoke in his ordinary manner, and gave him tea.  Mullá Husayn threw himself at the feet of the Báb and cried:  "I must go and proclaim the truth!"  But the Báb said:  "No, this is not the time."
When Mullá Husayn, the first disciple, was completely converted he longed to bring his associates to the Báb but the Báb told him that, for the present, he must just tell them that the Star of Hope had arisen, but not of his whereabouts.
Mullá Husayn returned to his friends who found him so transformed that they besought him to tell them if he had found the Truth.  So, one by one, he took them to the Báb, and the first class, numbering seventeen, was formed.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn also became one of these disciples.  With the Báb himself they were called the Nineteen Letters of the Living.
The Báb called himself "Báb" because he was the "gate" of the New Age.  The first disciple was given the name "Bábu'l-Báb", for through him the people came to know the truth.  Another spiritual person among the eighteen "Letters" who recognized the Báb from afar and instantly believed in him, was Quddús.  When the eighteen Letters of the Living were complete the Báb became the Point of Knowledge around which they gathered; eighteen apostles and one Point, making the first circle, the first unity.
The Báb gave his disciples certain wonderful epistles bidding them travel throughout Persia and, especially, to Karbilá that they might teach the religious leaders of the Muslim world.  These early apostles were fearless and full of enthusiasm.  Whenever they entered a city they at once gathered the people about them and proclaimed aloud the good tidings of the New Day and the coming of a new spiritual dispensation.  As their students were of the Muslim world they referred to the Qur'án and its prophecies concerning this day and the coming of the Point of Knowledge, explaining that they were fulfilled in the Báb.
In the Qur'án it is said that no one could give to the world a book to compare with the Qur'án.  And from the time of Muhammad until the year 1260 of the Hegira this was true.  Then the Báb, through divine power, wrote with the same brilliant and profound knowledge.  In order to prove this power to the people he called to them in his epistles, saying that he would answer abstruse questions without recourse to any book.  So he was asked many difficult questions.  And he wrote the answers with the rapidity of lightning, each page a masterpiece in thought, in style and beauty of penmanship.  Again and again it was proved that his writings were not of the intellect, but were pure inspiration.
The Báb now went to the holy city, Mecca, the centre of Islám, to which thousands of people journey every year.  The journey was made by sea, and one day a terrible storm arose.  It seemed as though the ship would sink any moment and the passengers were in a state of great excitement, when some of them noticed the Báb, sitting quietly, apart
page 197
from the others, in deep meditation.  He seemed so undisturbed by the impending peril that they exclaimed:  "Do you not realize that we shall all be drowned?"  But, with perfect serenity, he continued his meditations, and soon the storm passed and the sea became calm.
Among the passengers on this ship was a man of spiritual insight.  He recognized the quality of the courage and serenity in the Báb and later became one of the Letters of the Living.
While the Báb was at Mecca the three disciples who first accepted him started out from Shíráz and began fearlessly proclaiming the message.  Mullá Sádiq, an eminent and very popular Muslim, head of a mosque and with a following of hundreds of people, was one of their converts.  It was the custom to proclaim, four times a day, from the turret of the mosque:  "God is great and Muhammad is His Prophet!"  Mullá Sádiq told the Mu'adhdhin [Muezzin] to call out also that a great Gate of Knowledge had appeared.  He, himself, mounted his pulpit and read from the writings of the Báb profound interpretations of the Qur'án.  This sufficed to arouse in opposition some of the people of the community; others recognized the mercy and justice of this message to establish the Kingdom of God.  The mullás of the city became so disturbed at these happenings that they appealed to the Governor, as fanatical as they, who gathered the people together in a large hall and demanded the presence of Mullá Sádiq.
When Mullá Sádiq entered the audience hall his presence bespoke such majesty that the people were impelled to rise and show him deference.  The Governor inquired concerning the new teachings.  Mullá Sádiq replied:  "You are asleep!  You must rouse yourselves and listen to this call for the One whom you are awaiting has appeared, to fulfil the prophecies.  This is his Book and he, himself, is at Mecca!"
But this great message was rejected, and the three disciples of the Báb were taken into custody.  Their beards were burned, holes were pierced in their noses, they were bastinadoed, and made to ride through the city seated backwards on donkeys.  They accepted this treatment with such resignation that the people began to open their eyes.  They were banished from that city, and went to other places to teach the Cause.
By this time word had come from Búshihr on the Persian Gulf, that the Báb was returning from his pilgrimage to Mecca.  The Governor then sent guards to bring him back to Shíráz.  When he arrived in the city the state authorities and the clergy met in a great conclave and flung at him numberless questions.  These he answered with such wisdom that his friends were all confirmed in the teachings and his enemies could find no fault with him.  Nevertheless it was decided that he must abide in the home of his relatives, that no one could visit him, and that his teachings must not be spread among the people.
But the idols of imagination were now broken.  The people were ready to investigate, and many eminent men, seeking information, made their way to the Báb.
Then a terrible epidemic appeared in Shíráz, hundreds of people were stricken, and fear and consternation fell upon all.  The Governor, when his son fell ill, felt that this had come upon them because of their persecution of the Báb.  So he went to the Báb and fervently besought him to help his son.  When the son was healed the Governor was so overjoyed that he permitted the Báb to leave the city that he might bring happiness to others.
Quietly the Báb left Shíráz and travelled to the city of Isfahán, in the centre of Persia.  The rumour of his coming having reached those regions the people ran out to meet him, and the Governor, Manúchihr Khán, a deeply religious man, welcomed him, and became a believer.  The radiant, spiritual happiness of the Báb, the glowing beauty of the
page 198
love of God which he manifested, drew hundreds of people to him.  The doors were thrown open, that all might enter, might meet the Báb; listen to his words and be quickened.  Among those who visited him during these first days of his stay in Isfahán were many important personages, whose presence inspired the people with confidence.  Then some of the clergy, seeing the Báb's large following, feared for their own popularity.  The Governor told them that, since this was a theological matter, a meeting would be called, and all their questions could be put to the Báb.  Reports were taken of this meeting.  These reports exist now, and the questions asked were most childish.  The Báb in replying threw such wonderful new light upon these questions that they were utterly unable to comprehend his words.
The Governor was much disturbed.  Although he favoured the Báb, yet he could not risk his position.  So he said, to the mullás:  "I will exile him for your sake."  He ordered a cavalcade to accompany the Báb on his departure, and instructed the guards to bring him back.  So the cavalcade left the city through one gate, and brought the Báb back through another.  He stayed with the Governor for forty days, and many people visited him and received the message.  He wrote many volumes upon his teachings during this period of his stay in Isfahán.  The Governor became so enkindled that he wished to take radical steps to spread the Cause.  But the Báb said:  "This is a day of faith and persuasion.  Force cannot accomplish your purpose.  We must teach the people through self-sacrifice and non-resistance."  He also told the Governor that his (the Governor's) days were numbered, and that ere long he would enter the Kingdom of God.  On the fortieth day of the Báb's concealment in the palace of the Governor the Governor passed away.
The new Governor was neither just nor good.  Finding the Báb in the palace he told the populace.  They raised a great hue and cry and demanded that he be banished from Isfahán.  Therefore, by special permission of the Sháh, the Báb was sent to Tihrán.
While these events were taking place the eighteen Letters of the Living were travelling north, south, east and west proclaiming the teachings with such spiritual fervour that their number had increased to a host of believers.  It was like a great conflagration.  When the Báb's teaching had spread throughout Persia the Sháh wished to know of its message.  On his staff there was a mullá in whom he had great confidence.  This mullá he sent to Shíráz to visit the Báb that he might ascertain the nature of his teachings and report to the Sháh.  This mullá became one of the Báb's greatest apostles and finally gave his life for the Cause.
The Báb wished to meet the Sháh, personally, also the Grand Vazír [Vizier] and the Cabinet.  He hoped that they might be persuaded to give heed to the revelation; then the people of Persia might also become enlightened and enter into a new, spiritual life.  Therefore, when he arrived, in his journey to Tihrán, at a village nine miles distant from the capital, he sent a letter to the Sháh.  But the Grand Vizier prevented the Sháh from meeting the Báb.  He influenced the Sháh to write him that it was impossible to grant an interview, giving as excuse that the frontier was being attacked by an enemy.  The Sháh then had the Báb taken to northern Persia, there to await a change in conditions, saying he would send for him later.  On this journey from Tihrán the Báb's bodyguard, rough, uncouth tribesmen, became so transformed through his spiritual power that before the journey's end they were ardent followers, ready to do anything whatsoever that he desired.
In banishing the Báb, at this time, from place to place, the guards made it a custom to stop outside the towns and villages that no one might know of his
page 199
presence.  But despite this precaution the news of his approach would spread and when they drew near the towns the people would meet him and, often, bribe the guards for permission to talk with him and receive his spiritual instructions.  Thus this plan of banishment which, it was believed, would exterminate the teachings, proved a failure, for all those who came in touch with the Báb were irresistibly drawn to him.  Even the Governor of this province was attracted, and allowed the people free access to his presence.
Then the enemies of the movement again became active and influenced the Sháh to command that the Báb be sent to a very remote castle, near the extreme northern boundary of Persia.  The Governor, here, was an exceedingly harsh man, and he kept the Báb's presence absolutely secret.  His followers travelled and searched, in every direction, but no one could discover where he was hidden.
In this castle the Báb's imprisonment was extremely severe.  He was allowed no light, and completely isolated from the outside world.  However, he now had the time to write many divine teachings, which gradually spread throughout Persia.  During these days a fire was lighted in the hearts of his followers, which flamed forth and enkindled others and many awoke from the deep sleep of centuries and started out to travel and teach.  Then the enemies became more active than ever and determined utterly to extinguish the Cause.  The followers of the Báb were obliged at times to band together and defend themselves, bodily, behind trenches, in order to resist the violent attacks made upon them, in different parts of the country.  A new Sháh, seventeen years of age, now reigned and the country passed through a period of confusion.  More than ever were efforts made to extinguish the flame of the movement, because of a prevailing idea that, in this way, peace could be established in the land.
The siege of Mázindarán, which occurred about this time, has no parallel in religious history.  About four hundred of the followers of the Báb were gathered together in a jungle.  Here they were surrounded by several thousand guards, armed with guns and cannon, and reinforced by a populace numbering many, many thousands.  In the centre of the jungle there was an ancient shrine and here the believers entrenched themselves, and a siege began which lasted for nine months.  During the last three months of the siege the little party were almost starving.  They ate their horses, and then boiled the leather of the harness, and ate grass and herbs to sustain life.  Yet they spent the time in prayer and spiritual communion, and the forces of the government were utterly unable to overcome them.
Then the general decided upon other tactics.  He sent to the besieged the Book of the Qur'án upon which he had written a covenant or agreement to the effect that if they would come out, and go their way, their lives would be spared.  Believing in the sincerity of this document they filed out into the open.  They were asked to lay down their arms, and when this was done a feast was spread before them.  While partaking of this feast the soldiers charged upon them and massacred them all, to a man.
Two other events, of a like nature, occurred in southern and central Persia.
The movement seemed threatened with complete destruction.  Although the followers of the Báb made heroic defence, the government authorities slaughtered them right and left.  Yet, strange to say, their numbers steadily increased, and the longing for truth flamed brighter and brighter.
At last, in desperation, the Sháh and his prime minister determined to do away with the Báb himself.  Word was sent to the Governor of Tabríz to bring him out from his prison.  An important meeting was then held at which many dignitaries were present.  The Báb was
page 200
questioned, declared a heretic, and sentenced to death.  An order was issued that he be bastinadoed.  But, at the risk of their lives, the servants of the court refused to carry out these instructions.  They were filled with respect and admiration for the noble prisoner.  This so angered the enemies that one of them rose in his wrath and himself perpetrated the deed.
The proclamation went forth that the Báb was condemned to death, and great excitement prevailed in the city.  On July ninth, 1850, he was brought out, with bare head and feet, and compelled to walk through the streets to his execution while thousands followed him.
One of the most devoted disciples of the Báb, who had been with him in prison, requested that he be martyred with his master.  So these two were fastened with ropes to the wall of the citadel, in the open square, and a regiment of Armenian soldiers were commanded to fire upon them.  They all fired, at the same moment.  When the smoke cleared away the body of the disciple was discovered riddled with bullets.  But the Báb was nowhere to be seen.  At first it was thought that a miracle had been wrought.  But, upon investigation, the Báb was found in a room in the citadel.  The bullets had merely severed the ropes binding him to the wall, and he had fallen to the ground, unharmed.  He was brought back and the regiment commanded to fire again.  But they refused to do so, saying, among themselves, that the Báb must be a great saint.  Another regiment, of Muslim soldiers, was brought, and this time their bullets pierced his body, leaving his face quite free of disfigurement.  Thus the soul of the Báb ascended to heaven.
His body was carried and dropped outside the city, before the eyes of the populace, as a sign of disgrace.  A small number of guards were set to watch the place.  While most of them were asleep some of the disciples of the Báb came and bribed the two who remained awake, and obtained possession of the body.  They carried it to a silk factory and it was carefully wrapped in silks, and taken secretly to Tihrán, where it remained for many years.  After the departure of Bahá'u'lláh, 'Abdu'l-Bahá had the body brought to Mount Carmel where it was placed in a tomb and now all pilgrims who journey to this region visit this shrine.
Two years after the martyrdom of the Báb great trouble came upon his followers through a few fanatical disciples who in their ignorance made an attempt upon the life of the Sháh which resulted in a violent persecution of the whole movement.  The Sháh, very despotic and powerful, was at his summer palace.  These misguided disciples secreted themselves in the garden, and, as he came forth from the palace they rushed forward, with pistols.  The Sháh was slightly wounded and several of the conspirators were killed.  Believing this to mean that the movement was opposed to the government the Sháh gave orders that all the believers in Persia be searched out.  In Tihrán many were found; among these were about forty eminent men who were placed in an underground prison where they were heavily chained and given little food.  Each day one or two of this number were taken out, by order of the Sháh, and executed, after being subjected to every kind of torture.  The Sháh divided the believers among groups representing the various professions and trades, to be killed by each group according to their particular method.  The spiritual fortitude of these martyrs was so wonderful that some of their enemies even were converted.  While undergoing utmost torture they chanted the glorious verses of the Báb, and one of them danced during his execution.  Permission was given by the court to kill all believers and confiscate their possessions.  It was believed that anyone who killed a follower of the Báb would ascend to heaven.
A regiment of soldiers was sent to destroy the home of Bahá'u'lláh, and
page 201
men, women and children, nineteen in all, were captured.  They were stoned and thrown into prison.  This, it was thought, would completely eradicate the movement.
__________
Although the six years of the Báb ministry were spent, largely, in prison and in exile, and he was constantly surrounded by guards and enemies, he was at all times peaceful and happy, always radiating heavenly joy.  He was so surrounded by enemies that his friends and followers had the greatest difficulty in obtaining a meeting with him, and yet, thousands and thousands of the people of Persia, of high and of low degree, partook of his teachings, became their embodiment, and spread them to all parts of the country.
During this long persecution the Báb found time not only to dictate many teachings but, with his own pen, to write volumes of exquisite calligraphy.  In Persia, to this day, beautiful penmanship is regarded as an art.  Those who are fortunate enough to possess some of the delicate writings of the Báb consider them a most valuable heritage.  Many of the Báb's writings were, unfortunately, destroyed.  Often, when his followers were being persecuted and driven from their homes they buried in the ground, before fleeing, his writings which they prized so highly.  Returning at some later time they would find that moisture had almost effaced them.
The teachings of the Báb
The teaching of the Báb to which his persecutors objected most was that man should be delivered from superstition and dogma.  Living in Persia, it was necessary to consider the Muslim world; therefore a large part of his teaching referred to questions asked him regarding the Qur'án.  He called to the people of Islám to consider the inner and important meaning therein.  He taught that he himself was but the "gate" or door to the "City of Revelation", that divine City which would be revealed.  He taught that a Great Personage, then living, but hidden behind the veils, would come to them and teach them a divine revelation and would usher in the new era of universal brotherhood.  He often addresses this invisible Being in his writings, saying:  "O, my Master!  O, my Lord!  I have accepted every persecution in order to prepare the people for Thy coming so that when Thou shouldst unveil Thyself they might he ready to meet Thee!"
A great question of the Muslim religious world was that of the "return", the belief being that when the new Gate of Knowledge appeared many holy souls would return and be present with him in flesh and blood.  This question was given utmost importance, and it is for this reason that the Báb said the qualities and attributes of these holy souls had appeared, through his apostles.
Another question which the Islamic world addressed to the Báb was that of the "Resurrection", which was understood, literally, as it is by the Christians who have the same teaching.  The Báb explained that the resurrection is the coming of the Manifestation of God, when religion is renewed.  He said that his own coming was the Lesser Resurrection; but the Great Manifestation, of whom he so frequently spoke, would usher in the Great Resurrection.  God sitting upon the throne, he explained, meant that the body of the Manifestation would be the throne of the Holy Spirit.  Paradise, meant the recognition of the Lord in the Manifestation and living in accordance with His teachings.  Hell was selfishness, fanaticism and doubt.  He said that resurrection, therefore, did not mean the resurrection of flesh and blood from the tomb, but a spiritual resurrection, an awakening of inner potentialities and spiritual faculties, brought about by the recognition of the Manifestation of God.
The Báb divided the revelation of the Manifestations of God into five parts.  The first part deals with those writings
page 202
which explain the mystery of divinity.  The second part includes the prayers, communes, supplications revealed by the prophets and addressed to God.  These, when recited, draw man unto the spirit of divine harmony and a higher state of spirituality.  The third part is concerned with the interpretations of the heavenly books, explaining the symbolism and hidden meanings from which man has been veiled for past centuries.  The prophets and Manifestations from time immemorial have spoken in metaphor and symbol and their meaning it has not always been easy for people to understand.  But the Great Teachers themselves have been able to throw a flood of light upon the esoteric teachings of the former Great Teachers; they alone can fully grasp and explain the significance of the sacred words.  The fourth applies to the metaphysical, scientific and theological questions asked by the scholars and thinkers of the age.  The fifth part is the essence of the Teachings.
The writings of the Báb may be similarly divided.  First, his explanations of divinity, so subtle, so transcendental, so divine in quality that a mind and soul especially equipped are required, to understand them.  Second, the prayers which are filled with ecstasy and rapture.  Third, answers to questions regarding interpretations of the Islamic writings, as the teachings of the Báb have largely to do with the Muslim world.  Fourth, treatises on scientific and philosophical questions.  Fifth, the verses of the Báb stating that when the Great Manifestation appears He will cancel or repeal as many of these teachings as are not fitted to the exigencies of the time.
The Báb declared that he had brought in but the Lesser Resurrection because his message was circumscribed, limited to the Islamic people and to one part of the world.  But there would arise a new consciousness, a universal resurrection, and this new spiritual consciousness would sweep over the entire world.


XIV:7, October 1923
page 203
The need of the Bahá'í Movement in Europe
Stanwood Cobb
Territet, Switzerland, August, 1923.
As one travels through the different countries of Europe one is deeply impressed with the tragic and desperate situation with which the whole civilization of that continent is threatened.  The hardships under which so many races are suffering, and the dangers of much worse events in the coming years, are due not to physical or necessary causes, but purely to a state of mind.  It is the double quality of fear and hate which is spreading the gigantic shadow of oncoming ruin over all of continental Europe.
This state of mind, which would seem the easiest thing in the world to change, is in reality the hardest.  It is easier for humanity to tunnel mountains, bridge oceans and conquer the air than to change this psychology of disunion into a psychology of union and fraternity.  The sad truth must be told, that the war has failed as yet to turn the hearts and thoughts of the great races of Europe into ways of peace.  One nation only, Austria, has learned a lesson and has renounced war thoroughly from heart and soul.
In Europe I am reminded of the advice of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, not to give our interest too much to earthly politics, but to the politics of the Kingdom of God.  One sees here clearly the futility of earthly politics.  The most statesmanly brain, the most astute intelligence, brooding over European politics ad infinitum, could find no earthly way out of the dilemma.  There are no sides one can take.  There is no one nation that by a sincere effort toward justice is leading the way to peace and stability in Europe.  All are wrong.  All are sharing in a guilt which if continued can only be paid for with more blood.
So one wearies of reading the newspapers of the different countries, of discussing with different nationals the present situation, with any hope of arriving at a human solution or of being able to take sides with right against wrong.  All is wrong here, in the play of politics; and the right is only to be found in the application of Bahá'u'lláh's laws to the crying needs of a war-intoxicated and bewildered humanity.
Here and there, of course; are individuals who have the heart toward peace; here and there are organizations which are working splendidly for harmony rather than disharmony between nations.  But the general tide and current of thought in continental Europe is no longer toward internationalism, but toward a nationalism, supported by war.
Hence to those sincere and eager souls who in such a situation despair bitterly of the future, the Bahá'í Message comes welcomed and receptively.  They have no argument against it, because desiring peace and prosperity for their country and for the whole world, they can see no way of attaining their desires unless by such spiritual means as the Cause offers.
How clear and evident now is the word of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, that no human effort or organization can bring about the ideal conditions for humanity!  Those movements here toward fraternity, toward international brotherhood and peace, which sprang up with sincere intention and flourished with a vivid hope in the years immediately subsequent to the war, are now languishing.  They have no power or life.  The miasmic overgrowths of hate and fear are overshadowing them, choking them out.  It is very plain to any intelligent person that these now feeble calls to peace cannot become effective.  Not but what such organizations are good and praiseworthy.  All such present secular efforts toward brotherhood, though on the plane of action ineffective, are preparing people to take part later on in establishing the Kingdom
page 204
of God.  Bahá'ís should give their sympathy and help to all such movements-but their heart and central energy to the holy Cause of God.
It is strange how this terrible and heart-moving spectacle of a war-mad Europe strengthens one's faith in the Bahá'í Movement.  The reason as well as the heart becomes convinced that only this Cause can prevail against such hatreds and animosities.  The Cause begins to stand out like the cloud that led by day and the pillar of fire that led by night the people of God through the wilderness.  In America we cannot as yet see the grand station of the Cause, because the life of the people is going on prosperously and happily without it.  Pray God it may not need such disasters in America to open our eyes to the need and the reality of the Cause of God.
More consoling and uplifting can be my next letter, in which I shall tell of the holy sweet souls we have met, brothers and sisters in the Cause shedding their little rays of light in darkened countries; and of sincere, earnest souls to whom we gave the Message.  These are things to make one glad.  This is the politics of the Kingdom.


XIV:7, October 1923
page 204
Can religion and science agree?
Louis G. Gregory
Can religion and science agree?  An affirmative answer to this question, generally understood and accepted, will bring peace to numberless people and set at rest a matter that has caused centuries of controversy.  Our hope is not the repose of inaction, but the realization of that peace which blends into harmony all forces in human development.  The question itself is in view of the fact that for long ages past and for the most part at present, there has been and is conflict between the devotees of science on the one hand and of religion on the other.  This strife is not found in reality.  It has brought only evil results and can never be justified.  For both religion and science are light; but strife grows out of darkness.
Religion clearly apprehended, sanctions every truth discovered and conveyed to us by scientific research.  In an age which unfolds so many wonders of science, great light and cheer come through the teachings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá that, "Religion must be reasonable; in so far as it contradicts the known and proved facts of science it ceases to be religion and becomes superstition."
It is wonderful to have the mind brightened by scientific knowledge.  It is marvellous to have the heart purified by the fire of divine love.  Both gifts are sacred and essential to human well being.  But until their unity is widely realized, discord will rend the best elements of the world.
Harmony between religion and science does not imply that pure religion must agree with every scientific theory.  There are many such theories which are not sustained by adequate proofs, but rest only upon the imagination of men.  Such theories, like the dogmas of religion, often change.  The ancient Greeks, although not without fame for learning, once believed that the sun was a ball of fire drawn by horses which daily crossed the sky.  Tradition had it that old Sol once lost control of his team and as a result went too near a man's field, burning his wheat.  Later the Ptolemaic system of astronomy, with its cycles and epicycles, held sway over the scientific world.  Contemporary scientists are practically unanimous in their acceptance of the belief that the entire human race is evolved from common animal ancestry.  But these and other theories are all confined in the realm of
page 205
conjecture and speculation.  Scientists cannot justly revile those who refuse to accept what is not proved.  On the other hand, religion should not oppose the well established truths of science, such as the law of motion, the law of cause and effect, the rotundity of the earth, the conservation of energy, the indestructibility of matter, the law of gravitation, the conic sections which form the orbits of heavenly bodies, the great antiquity of this world and of the universe, etc., etc.
It is evident that man, with all his acquired power and knowledge, creates nothing.  His inventions are not creations, but discoveries of the secrets of nature.  These secrets or laws are classified and arranged and to that branch of knowledge the term science is applied.  The creation of religion is also beyond the power of man.  That variety of religion which man evolves from his own minor or lower consciousness is but a sorry imitation.  It abounds in useless forms, ceremonies and creeds.  It leads to a labyrinth of doubt and gloom.  It bewilders the judgement but fails to comfort the heart.  But when religion and science are both genuine, they have their common origin in the divine Logos, or Creative Word, which, according to the Bahá'í teachings, is the first emanation from the unknown and unknowable Essence of Divinity.  It is this supreme Power, bestowing light and knowledge, and periodically revealed to mankind through the perfect man, such as Moses, Jesus and Bahá'u'lláh, which calls into being sciences, arts, virtues and religion.  Every grade and element of existence, according to its capacity, reflects the light of the divine Manifestation.  The Spirit of the Word gives life to man and the universe.  Great, indeed, is the mystery of the Word; Beyond the Word the aspiration of man cannot soar.  The hope, the illumination, the heaven of man are in the Word.  The Word itself implies its mysterious and Mighty Speaker.
The successive civilizations of the world have all grown out of the various revelations of religion which have come to mankind through the transcendent Might and Favour of God.  Pure religion ever gives its sanction to true science, for in spirit they are one.  The Bahá'í Revelation accentuates spiritual graces and also brings the greatest stimulus and encouragement to scientific studies.  Spiritual faith is not weakened, but confirmed by reason.  Every power in man should pay homage to his Creator.  When the body, mind and heart all consciously reflect the divine Light and accept its Guidance man becomes happily free from other dependence.  When religion, however, becomes corrupted by the ambitions of men it is no longer the paradise of truth, but becomes the wilderness of error.  For the superstitions and imitations which pretend to be religion always make war upon science.  And a superficial understanding of science may make one arrogant toward religion.  But the great scientists of the ages always discover in their laboratories those signs and wonders which make them humble.  They bow with reverence before these signs, knowing full well that such phenomena did not create themselves.  Great scientists of the past, such as Pythagoras, Hippocrates, Plato, Aristotle and Pliny, were confirmed in their belief in God through the discoveries of science and philosophy.  The greatest lights of science and philosophy in modern times are reverent in their attitude toward true religion.  Professor Huxley speaks of "true science and true religion as twin sisters", and declares that "the separation of one from the other is likely to prove the death of both."  Herbert Spencer, while admitting for the scientist a pride before the traditions and authorities of men, yet bears witness to humility "before the impenetrable veil which hides the Absolute."
He further declares:
"Only the sincere man of science, ... one who through lower truth seeks the highest, can truly know how utterly beyond not only human knowl-
page 206
edge, but human conception, is the Universal Power of which Nature, and Life, and Thought are manifestations."
Within a few years a report was circulated by the press that the American wizard, Thomas A. Edison, was a sceptic, a story which was promptly and vigorously denied by Mr Edison.  Yet it may be understood how all these eminent men would be classified as agnostics and sceptics by those who mistake ceremonies for the reality of faith.  These men of genius have too large, clear and penetrating a vision to be misled by the idols of human thoughts.  But when they discover reality, in either religion or science, they are made happy.  No doubt they would all react favourably to the sentiment expressed by the Victorian poet Tennyson, whose conception of peace and progress in both religion and science so clearly reflected the Light of Bahá'u'lláh:
"There lives more faith in honest doubt,
Believe me, than in half the creeds."
The Holy Scriptures of all religions reveal the Word of God.  The universe at large and all that is therein unfold the works of God through his Word.  All that God gives is light; man brings darkness by veils that cover his own heart and mind.  Evil is only the misuse of good.  How many of the world's greatest scientists are today classified as enemies of religion because they cannot honestly subscribe to those tenets of error which mask as religion and which sometimes are commercialized and are sold for a consideration!  And how many religionists, even sometimes the honest in heart, are so veiled by ignorance as to revile science, a blessing to the world from their own Creator!  The creation of God is ever bright and harmonious with the melodies of love and unity; but those who fail to use their own highest possibilities of study will never soar beyond the abyss of darkness and rancour.
It has come to pass, even in this day of popular education, that several prominent clergymen have denied the rotundity of the earth, no doubt led by the misreading of their own Bible.  One declared that although the philosophers teach that the earth is round, yet the Holy Bible speaks of the four corners of the earth and it is obvious that anything that has four corners cannot be round.  So he passed that back to the philosophers, who, he believed, were quite vanquished in argument.
A theologian was once explaining to a rural conclave the creation of man.
"God," he declared, "created man out of wet clay, and then set him up against the palings to dry."
"Well in that case," asked inquisitive Deacon Brown, "who set up those palings?"
"Now Brother Brown," replied the parson, "if you are going to ask such questions as that you will destroy the whole system of theology!"
Despite the veneration which many people have for their own notions, it becomes more and more apparent that theology may be upset without harm to either religion or science.
The clear cause of the conflict between religion and science is the failure of each spiritual generation, or dispensation, to understand its own Holy Book.  Truth, divinely revealed, wears two dresses.  One is the simple statement, "Precept upon precept, line upon line, here a little, there a little."  This all men can grasp, though unfortunately few apply.  The second dress is the symbols and parables found in all the sacred writings.  These, the hard shells say, must be interpreted and believed literally, or else man is an apostate and infidel whose soul is lost.  Even though such literal interpretation sets at naught science and reason, betrays spiritual blindness, and is at variance with all the laws of God's universe, this school of dogma will expel and persecute those who dissent from their own narrow and limited views.  The failure of orthodoxy to understand its symbols led to the crucifixion of Jesus, and the same enmity, born of ignorance consumes the souls
page 207
of men whenever a Divine Messenger appears in the world.
"O Jerusalem! Jerusalem!  Thou that killest the Prophets and stonest them that are sent unto thee!"  This was the pathetic lamentation of long ago.
Today Bahá'u'lláh says:
"I beckon thee to life; but thou preferrest death!"
It is both sad and strange that darkness is preferred to light.  But the eternal hope is now that great Light which harmonizes religion and science, and the Promise is that all creation will eventually see its splendour.  It is the Light of God which makes religion reasonable and clearly reveals its harmony with science.  The Supreme Authority establishes this for all time.  Now we know that those sacred writings, revealed by the Prophets of God, which on their face appear to contradict science were never meant by their inspired authors to be taken literally.  Their meanings are veiled by symbol.  Therefore, each statement, if not understood, should be weighed in the balance of science, reason, and spiritual insight.  If it agrees with the truths of science, it should be accepted without question.  If it contradicts the proved facts of science, which are also of God, it is symbolic and not to be taken literally.  Prayer, a reverent attitude toward the Word, a study of the Bahá'í Revelation, will unfold its inner significance, which is truly a divine favour.  It is not the divine purpose that sincere seekers should be veiled in this day, but rather that all should discover the Great Light of Reality.  The true Educators, who are the Holy Manifestations, would awaken in man's consciousness the unity of truth.  Man's light, joy, and reverence will increase with this great blessing.
A child reads the fables of Aesop and thinks that the animals actually conversed.  But a mature person, perusing the same fables, enjoys their entertaining humour, but with clear discernment sees the purpose in the moral.  In much the same way, the Messengers of God in the past, sometimes in the present, have conveyed great spiritual laws in the form of symbol.  As these luminous Points so often appeared in the mystic East, they have used those figures of speech and vehicles of expression which were understood by their disciples, revealing light and knowledge according to the advancement of their followers.  There, speech abounds in symbols.  Even a little light upon those symbols which appear in the Holy Books will bring clearer understanding to those who read.  In the light of the Bahá'í teachings it is made clear that water is a symbol of knowledge; fire, Divine Love; tree, a Holy Manifestation; birds, human thoughts; animals, nations and peoples; dragons, religious orders or dynasties; clouds, changes of ordinances, alterations opposed of men; hell, deprivation or ignorance; heaven, knowledge, the Divine Will, exaltation, etc.; Sun, a Holy Manifestation; Moon, successor, or first believer; stars, the clergy, or religious doctors, etc.  These are very few of [the] many symbols that appear with meanings that sometimes vary.  As we read them, they bring new insight in reading the first eleven chapters of Genesis, which are all in symbol, as well as many other parts of the Bible and of other revelations.  Wonderful significances are found in such stories as the Garden of Eden, Cain and Abel, the plagues of Egypt, Satan, Jonah and the whale, the dead and their graves, the resurrection, the temptation in the wilderness, the rivers of Paradise, etc.  Parables unfold the stages of man's progress, from the material to the spiritual, and his condition of utter helplessness and misery when deprived of Divine Favour.  But these significances are veiled from those who insist upon literal interpretation and are at war with science.
The origin of science and the inspiration to man's acquirement are in the Word.  Whatever of reality man discovers today is his reaction to that marvellous Spirit which Bahá'u'lláh
page 208
brings to the world.  One familiar with the theory of the electron, now popular among the scientists, may well be thrilled in reading in the Seven Valleys of Bahá'u'lláh this wonderful statement:
"Whatever mote thou splittest thou wilt find therein a sun!"
After gazing into the starry heavens, and then upon a piece of radium, it is no less thrilling to read the following passage from the Súriy-i-Haykal:
"Should we desire to show forth from an atom, suns without beginning and without end, We are indeed able and We can make them all appear in a moment by My Command.  Should We wish to produce from a drop of water the seas of the heaven and earth and from a letter the science of what was and is, We are indeed able-verily it is an easy matter."
How marvellous, how overwhelming, is divine knowledge!  Man is awe-struck by the Power of the Word!  Should he not be a witness to the ceaseless flow of creation which ever meets his astonished vision?  He is ever a child if he reads the Book of Life without striving to perceive its meaning.  The soul is enriched by both material and divine sciences.  'Abdu'l-Bahá ever beckons us to knowledge!  May no false pride or vainglory rob us of the divine gift!  May reverence that is meet increase our capacity to know!  For whatever the progress of man, the True One remains, exalted in His greatness and Glory,
"A sea upon which no one can sail!"
Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá because of their Revelation and interpretation of heavenly laws, making religion both rational and spiritual, have attracted to their standard some of the world's most powerful minds.  Leo Tolstoy, the hope of Russia, drew his light and inspiration from Bahá'u'lláh.  Arminius Vambery, the profound Orientalist, hailed with delight his meeting with 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Prof. Cheyne of Oxford University and Prof. Browne of Cambridge have added their tributes to the chorus from many countries and climes.  Among the learned in America who have praised the Bahá'í Cause may be included statesmen, ambassadors, jurists, scientists, educators, theologians, welfare workers and philanthropists.  Should not the weight of such authorities move the thoughtful to investigate?
The certainty that religion and science agree, as clarified in the Bahá'í teachings, brings a refining, cleansing, healing chord among the disciples of truth.  Religion and science united, makes religion scientific and science spiritual.  Since religion and science are now wed, the fruits of that marriage will bless, brighten and civilize man.  The oneness of religion and science reveals the Divine Unity and the unity of men.  It unfolds to our ken the mysteries of creation and the secrets of both worlds.  It establishes the connection and correspondence of all phenomena and suffuses the universe with light.  The progressive in spirit, those who seek the symmetry of education and want ideal advancement, may well turn to the example of Shoghi Effendi.  That brilliant youth, to whom a world looks for guidance, acquired the sciences with diligent application.  His grasp of religion is as luminous as the sun.
__________
We are rejoiced to receive word that the name of Miss Agnes Alexander, our Bahá'í pioneer in Japan, is in the list of those who were saved in the great Tokyo earthquake.  May all the beloved friends be protected and safe.
Within and behind the laws of nature, by the watching of whose operations the scientists may explain this cataclysmic disaster, is the Omnipotent and Loving Creator, Who transforms apparent calamity into light and mercy.  May this great disaster bring a closer accord between Japan and the United States as they send their good-will to each other over the "Ocean of Peace".


XIV:7, October 1923
page 209
Communication and divine inspiration
The physical world reflects the spiritual, the flowers of earth, the flowers of heaven, the laws of matter, the laws of the spirit.  As Plato and Swedenborg and other divine philosophers have so often said, by the law of correspondence we see in things below a reflection of those on high.
Engineers are today investigating with the greatest eagerness the physical laws of the transmission of the electrical waves which produce the miracle of the radio:  what interferes with their perfect transmission, what obstacles prevent their conveying a message in its original purity, how can they perfect the receiving instruments, how protect the hearers to whom they are sending beautiful music, for instance, from the jarring notes of the uninitiated transmitters and their poor instruments which vibrate discordantly over the ether.
The radio of the earth is an exquisite symbol of the radio of the spirit.  Brilliant scientific minds of our day are investigating with equal earnestness the laws of spiritual communication.  Prominent writers and men of science, are devoting their time to perfecting researches in the spiritual radio and making it known to a world which is hungering for spiritual knowledge.
In this investigation, however, we meet with difficulties.  We find that there arise in people's minds countless ideas which they believe to be real communications but in reality are merely the ripples of the sea of imagination.  They rise to the surface as do the mistaken ideas which appear in the minds of thinkers, in all ages.  Like the old scientific conception of the flatness of the earth they are pure imagination.  A large part of the so-called communications of our day are simply the motions of the sea of illusion.
But the fact of real spiritual communication is none the less as indubitable as the shining of the sun.  It is perhaps the central motive power in all human history, this communication of spiritual thought and life from person to person.  It is the essence of all successful teaching.  What was that strange something which Moses communicated to the children of Israel?  When he stood on the hill and but raised his arms the Jews felt their minds and hearts charged with an invincible energy.  Jesus communicated to his disciples something much greater than physical words.  He transmitted the love, the purity, the divine flame of devotion to the Kingdom which was burning in the crystal of his divine spirit.  'Abdu'l-Bahá tells of how Mount Carmel seems almost to speak with one, as though a wave of unseen life swept from the mountain into our spirits.  How much more does the living presence of the great prophet radiate life into our being!  A visitor was one time sitting by the wall inside the garden of the Pilgrim House at Haifa.  All at once he felt a great current of spiritual life touch and envelope him.  He rose in wonder, and beheld 'Abdu'l-Bahá passing on the other side of the wall.  Even the walk of the great spiritual Master, Bahá'u'lláh said, sends spiritual energy through the world.  It is this broadcasting of the waves of their spirit which makes their written words so life-imparting.  In the following quotations 'Abdu'l-Bahá describes this great spiritual law:
"This material world has an outer appearance.  It has also a hidden aspect.  These created things are linked one with the other into one system which leads to the unseen, and ends at last in spiritual realities.  I hope that these spiritual links will every day become stronger and this mind-communication which is termed inspiration, will continue.  When this is realized there is no cause for disturbance over bodily separation.  This station is beyond the circle of words and above all description."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Diary of Mírzá Mahmúd, 28 April 1912.
__________
"Often people speak together without
page 210
the mediary of the tongue.  There are two methods of intercourse-one through the outward tongue, the other through the ideal, the inner tongue.  When the spirit is detached, when the heart is in a subjective state, then the ideal tongue can speak.  But as long as the spirit is preoccupied and the heart is objective in its activities it is impossible to attain to that station.  Consider:  is there not an ideal union between the lover and the beloved?  Often with the glance of an eye, or a handshake a whole world of thought is conveyed, without the uttering of a word.  It is possible to attain to such a state, if we are set aglow with the fire of the love of God, if we are attached to Him, if we are as a burning torch, if we rise above material phenomena and objects.'-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 20 December 1912.
__________
"When man's soul is rarefied and cleansed spiritual links are set up and from these bonds heartfelt sensations are produced.  The human heart resembles a mirror.  When this is purified hearts are attuned and reflect one another and thus spiritual emotions spring up.  This is like unto the world of dreams, when man is detached from tangible matter and experiences spiritual activities.  What amazing laws operate and what remarkable discoveries are made and it may even be that detailed communications are registered."-From Tablet to a Chicago friend.
__________
"Know verily, that 'Abdu'l-Bahá has spiritual speech, heavenly conversations and revelations of the heart.  Verily I address, through the Bounty of Bahá, in spirit and vision, (those) who address me, and this is known to those from whose eyes God has lifted the gloomy cover."-From Tablet to Mrs Nash, Los Angeles.
__________
"Verily, the spirit knows the spirit, the spirit addresses the spirit, and the spirit associates with the spirit."-From Tablet to Mrs Frankland, Tropico, California.
__________
"Verily, I speak unto thee through the tongue of my spirit, from the spiritual direction, and explain for thee the mysteries of the Kingdom and the meanings of the sacred, heavenly books. ...
"Verily, I love thee with my heart, my spirit and my mind and associate with thee in spirit (and converse with thee) with my inmost tongue.  I love for thee to arise to that for which I have arisen, in servitude to the Sublime and Holy Threshold, turning unto God, hoping for martyrdom, so that thou mayest attain to the gift, the lights of which glisten in the eternal horizon."-From Tablet to Mr J. F. Brittingham, New York City.
Communication from the heavenly world
Nor does this communication cease when the spirit of the Great Master ascends into the unseen world.  Nay, rather, then communication is easier, because he has laid aside the barriers of the body.  It is difficult to find, in its influence on European history, a more momentous event than the conversion of Paul, the cause of which was a spiritual communication received in the form of a vision as he journeyed to Damascus.  In his heart was hatred, a determination to uproot, to exterminate if possible the whole community of the early Christians when suddenly he saw, with inner vision, the spirit of the Christ shining upon him, like the sun, and a voice bade him become an apostle of the new religion.  That spiritual communication transformed his life and through him changed the whole course of human history.  Similar communications, in later years guided Paul at crucial moments.  The Bible is full of accounts of how angels flash to the children of men heavenly guidance.  These angels are either the purified souls of those who have ascended into the Kingdom, or they are the rays of the Holy Spirit, in either case a shining symbol of communication from on high.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "Evil spirits are deprived of eternal life.  How then can they exercise any influence?  But as eternal life is ordained for holy spirits therefore their influence exists in all the divine worlds."  And Bahá'u'lláh
page 211
tells us that the rays of these holy souls determine the stations of the nations.  They are broadcasting spiritual waves to all corners of the earth and many an artist and thinker who believes himself the creator of great and original ideas has but caught on the receiving instrument of his mind and heart the waves from the world of the Kingdom.
'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote to Miss Sarah Farmer:  "O thou prepared lamp!  Be thou enkindled with the fire of the love of God as much as thou canst and illumine those countries so that thou mayest find eternal life and shine upon all ages and cycles."
How to be sure that communications are real
How can we know when the message which comes to us is true and when it is merely imagination and illusion?  First we must so perfect and purify our instrument, our mind and soul that they may register none but the communications from on high.  Sometimes these come in waking moments.  Often they shine upon us in our dreams when the outer mind is quiet and the body is at rest.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "It is well known that a very profound relation exists between the spirit of man and the reality in the world of existence, for it often happens that what we see in a dream comes to pass in waking hours.  This shows that between the spirit of man and the outer phenomenal world there is spiritual communion.  Furthermore the spirit of man has the power of discovering things.  When this power is recognized these problems become easy.  But the most interesting fact of all is this, that even the materialists, while they deny spiritual power are engaged in making discoveries and are thus immersed in spiritual power and claim to know coming events."  -'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From Mírzá Mahmúd's Diary, 10 June 1912.
__________
"There are three kinds of visions or dreams.  First, those that arise from over-excited nerves, or disordered stomach, and are of no use whatever.  Second, when God sends a revelation to a soul that is not entirely pure from the world to such an one He sends visions in symbols and signs, and these experiences need an interpreter.  The third kind is when a soul who is severed from the world receives a revelation from God.  In this station everything is clear and pure and needs no explanation."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From notes of Miss Pearson, taken at 'Akká, 26 February 1899.
__________
The true communication is often quite contrary to our personal will.  Paul's vision on the road to Damascus meant that he must renounce his will completely, to build the Kingdom of the Christ.  We know all real spiritual communications by their fruits.  True messages from the heavenly world make our lives more pure, more loving, more dedicated to the service of the Kingdom.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá says of these spiritual letters:  "My correspondence with thee is uninterrupted, for in my Spirit I supplicate and entreat toward the Kingdom of Abhá in thy behalf.  The essence of correspondence is this, that it may be imprinted upon the tablet of the heart.  (This correspondence) is sent to thee without intermission by the faithful messenger of the Spirit.  Consequently look thou and study thyself.  Whenever thou beholdest that the soul has glad tidings, the heart is rejoiced, the eye and the insight are illumined, the ears opened, the tongue fluent in uttering the truth of His Highness the Merciful One, and the spirit is soaring heavenward with joy know of a certainty that the tablet hath reached thee."-From a Tablet to Miss Ambrose, Washington, D.C.
__________
But the supreme test of the truth of our visions, ideas and communications is to compare them with the divine messages of the great prophets.  With them communication with the worlds of God becomes so perfect, so infallibly certain that we call it inspiration or revelation.  They are the pure hearts which see God, which reflect the Sun of Reality in Its completeness.  At best our messages are but broken rays, coloured by the glass of
page 212
our imperfect lives.  Only the absolutely selfless and pure can receive messages which are invariably certain and true.
Therefore, through all history God has sent a shining succession of these pure mirrors to reflect and communicate the very truth of God in language fitted to their time and age.  The great prophets merge their human will in absolute obedience to the will of God.  Therefore in them the voice of God can speak crystal clear.
The visions of Isaiah, Ezekiel, the revelations which came to Amos, Hosea, Jeremiah, St. John on Patmos are recorded in the Bible.  From cover to cover the Bible tells one story of divine communication which we know as inspiration.
In our day it has burst upon the world with undimmed brilliance through the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and now in Shoghi Effendi.  Jináb-i-Fádil speaks of how the great prophet manifests such amazing knowledge, "foresees events thousands of years before they come to pass.  They are like sensitive photographic plates on which are reproduced the images of the Kingdom.  His Holiness the Báb was the herald of Bahá'u'lláh.  He said, 'Today I am the centre of knowledge.  Whosoever desires to ask me any question, no matter on what subject, I will write or speak about it immediately, without reflection.'  He said not only that he would answer, but he said that he would answer without reflection.  His inspiration was just like the water springing out of the fountain, uninterruptedly.  'Whatever I write,' he said, 'with my hand, it is not my hand that writes; it is the power of God that moves the hand.'  He wrote with greatest rapidity, on scientific and philosophical subjects.  It often happened that the 'Ulamás of Persia gathered in a great meeting and presented to him abstruse questions.  Instantly, the Báb would take his pen and write in answer, explanations that were most clear and perfect."
Bahá'u'lláh says in his Tablet to the Sháh of Persia: "O King!  I was but a man like others, asleep upon My couch, when lo, the breezes of the All-Glorious were wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all that hath been.  This thing is not from Me, but from One Who is Almighty and All-Knowing.  And He bade Me lift up My voice between earth and heaven, and for this there befell Me what hath caused the tears of every man of understanding to flow.  The learning current amongst men I studied not; their schools I entered not.  Ask of the city wherein I dwelt, that thou mayest be well assured that I am not of them who speak falsely.  This is but a leaf which the winds of the will of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Praised, have stirred.  Can it be still when the tempestuous winds are blowing?19
The same inspiration flowed through the pen and the voice of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Jináb-i-Fádil tells of how "one of the philosophers of Persia came to 'Akká, Palestine.  He asked certain proofs of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied, I am ready to answer any question that you ask.  I will dictate to you provided that you are able to follow my thought, without stopping.  The man replied, very well, that is easy.  Then he asked a scientific question.  The explanation flowed from the tongue of 'Abdu'l-Bahá like a waving sea.  When the philosopher had written one page he begged to be excused.  'Abdu'l-Bahá said that he would dictate more slowly.  So the man wrote the second page.  But he found it impossible to follow the dictation.  He was so filled with, wonder and astonishment that he immediately became an ardent follower of the Cause and began to teach others."
'Abdu'l-Bahá in his last Will and Testament shows us that after his ascension Shoghi Effendi, the glorious youth, is the dayspring of divine guidance.  He is under "the unerring guidance of God".
Thus we have, in the midst of the world
page 213
a standard of divine revelation.  By this heavenly standard can we compare our ideas, speculations, dreams and visions.  The Great Prophet speaks the pure teachings, the pure truth of God.  He thus becomes a divine centre of certainty and of unity, for by uniting upon his teaching, which is the teaching of God, the many peoples and nations may become one.
Furthermore, he communicates not only ideas, but the dynamic power to put them into action.  He transmits to those who read his words much more than the words, much more than ideas-the divine energy which purifies the spirit, consecrates the life, sets the heart aflame with the fire of love.  He communicates his divine energy to all those who with pure and responsive hearts read his words or repeat his prayers.  His words are the water of life which makes all things new, God's bestowal for establishing on earth and in the minds of men, unity and peace.  Out of the water of his divine knowledge, flowing through the New Jerusalem of his teachings, rises the tree of life, the beloved community of his disciples in all lands and religions, whose leaves (deeds and spirit) are for the healing and uniting of the nations.  "Blessed are they that have a right to come to the tree of life and enter by the Gates into the City."


XIV:8, November 1923
page 227
The new Covenant
The symbol of the Covenant runs like a shining cord of unity through the religions of the world.  The Old Testament means the Old Covenant.  The New Testament is the New Covenant.  And all through the Bible is to be found the promise of a still newer Covenant to be made in the Latter Day, the fullness of time, when God shall write His law in the hearts of His children, and they shall know Him from the least unto the greatest; and there shall be one fold and one Shepherd, a thousand years of peace.  "The holy ones of old whenever they imagined the wondrous vision" of this day of days were "as thunderstruck and yearned for but a fleeting moment of that glorious hour."
The Covenant is a divine agreement between God and His children.  He has a wonderful plan for man's life upon earth, for his destiny as a transformer of the world.  "O MY SERVANT!  Thou art even as a finely tempered sword concealed in the darkness of its sheath and its value hidden from the artificer's knowledge.  Wherefore come forth from the sheath of self and desire that thy worth may be made resplendent and manifest unto all the world."20  "O MY FRIEND!  Thou art the day-star of the heavens of My holiness, let not the defilement of the world eclipse thy splendour.  Rend asunder the veil of heedlessness, that from behind the clouds thou mayest emerge resplendent and array all things with the apparel of life."21  But to attain to this station ordained for him from the creation of the world, man must obey God's laws, which are the articles of God's Covenant, revealed by Him through His chosen messengers.  The covenant with Abraham gave the glad tidings that through his seed should all the nations of the world be blessed.  The covenant with Moses, uttered from the Sinai of Light, opened the door to the Promised Land.  Its first articles were the Ten Commandments.  The sovereignty of David, the splendour of Solomon, the flowering of Israel into a strong nation reveal the power which comes through obedience to the Covenant.  The degradation of the Babylonian captivity, the ruin of Jerusalem were the result of disobedience.  When the early Christians followed the covenant given by Christ in the Sermon on the Mount they became the light of the world.  They united the divergent races and religions of the old Roman Empire into a brotherhood so wonderful that three hundred years after Jesus' crucifixion a man travelling from Persia to England would be greeted by the Christians, all along the way, as though he were a member of their own family.
page 228
Centres of unity
The collective centre which unites "various peoples, tongues, nativities and opinions" is the Manifestation of God, the Great Mouthpiece of God.  Said 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in the Church of the Ascension, in New York City:  "The Collective Centre has always appeared in the Orient.  Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ, Muhammad were Collective Centres of Their day and time, and all arose in the East.  Today Bahá'u'lláh is the Collective Centre of unity for all mankind, and the splendour of His light has likewise dawned from the East."22  These collective centres have established the only real and powerful interracial, international unity that has ever been known upon this earth.  They are God's greatest bounty to mankind.
Elements in the Covenant
The covenant of God in each prophetic dispensation consists of two parts:  the teachings and the Divine Teacher; the revelation and the Prophet who reveals it.  "Is it possible that one may believe in a book without believing in the teacher of that book?  Is it possible to accept the sun and to reject its rays?  He who rejects the rays is, no doubt, a rejecter of the sun, too.  Further, many say, 'we have no need of prophets.  We can have direct connection with God.'  They do not know that divine prophets are the rays of the Sun of Reality and a means of educating the realities of men.  Therefore he who rejects the bounty of the Sun of Reality and thinks himself not in need of it is like unto him who says that he is not in need of God and rejects both God and reality in face of the fact that all creation is receiving incessant bounty from God and is dependent upon Him as the body is dependent upon the soul."-'Abdu'l-Bahá:  from the Diary of Mírzá Mahmúd, November, 1912.
Again, the teachings are like the rays of the sun:  the revealer of the covenant is the sun itself.  And the sun is more than all its rays, for it is the divine centre that radiates the rays to all corners of the universe.  So is it with the Great Prophets, the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth.  They are the pure centres through whom God speaks, and pours His Holy Spirit like a river of light.  They are both the heavenly teachings and the power of God.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá said of Jesus:  "Jesus was a Manifestation of God.  Everything of him pertained to God.  To know him was to know God.  To have him was to have God.  To obey him was to obey God.  He was the source of all divine virtues.  He was a vision of all divine qualities.  In this vision the light of the Sun of Reality was reflected to the world.  Through this mirror the Energy of God was transmitted to the world.  The whole disc of the Sun of Reality was reflected in him."
Because this "Primal Mirror" thus transmits the rays of the Sun of Truth and brings them directly to bear upon the lives and thoughts of men his appearance upon earth is like the glory of a divine springtime.  He focuses upon the world the radiance of a new truth, the warm rays of a new love, the showers of God's mercy, the all-renewing breezes of the Holy Spirit.  From out his teachings there flowers the summer season of a new civilization.
After the most glorious summer, however, there always follow the autumn and the winter.  This has been true of the teachings of even the greatest Manifestations.  Their covenant is, after a while, forgotten, its light hidden beneath the clouds of dogma and superstition.  When this occurs the Sun has always dawned again, from a new horizon, to fulfil the promise given by the previous Manifestation, that God would send a Successor, a new Mani-
page 229
festation, who would bring in a new "springtime of His Holiness The Eternal One".
The succession of these Manifestations of God is the central law of the religious development of the world.  It is the supreme teaching of the Covenant.  Therefore, "when the old world is sterile and the ages are effete" we must search for the new collective centre of God's new Covenant, and listen to his words, for when we have found him we have found God's new will for the new time.  This is the law of the spiritual history of the race, that every Great Prophet has taken a covenant with his followers that they should follow and obey his successor, the one whom God has willed to come after him.  This covenant tells men that they must be watchful for the next Manifestation, for he may come like a thief in the night.  Moses took a covenant with his followers that they should find and obey the fuller covenant to be revealed in the Christ.  Christ took a covenant that all should watch for the Son of Man, The Paraclete, The Spirit of Truth.  Buddhists have for twenty-five hundred years waited for the fuller covenant to be revealed by Maitreya; Zoroastrians for the three great figures to appear in Persia who would bring the forces of light to everlasting victory.  Muslims await the coming of Qá'im, the Mihdí, the Messiah.  The Hebrews remember the words of Malachi:  "Behold I send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me; and the Lord, whom ye seek, will suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the Covenant, whom ye desire, behold, he cometh, saith the Lord of Hosts."
The new Covenant in Bahá'u'lláh
The Bahá'í Teachings present to a despairing world the glad tidings that these promises of old have been fulfilled in a new and universal way, wonderful beyond all our imaginings.
The true prophets, said Jesus, referring to the glorious ones who should come after him, ye shall know by their fruits.  The following are some of the fruits of the life and the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá which prove their divine mission:
The reconciliation of science and religion so as to satisfy the minds and the hearts of men.
The statement of the Eternal Truth in the language of today so as to solve the problems of present-day society:  "He diagnoses the illness and prescribes the remedy.  Every day has its own secret."  "The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh," wrote 'Abdu'l-Bahá, shortly before his ascension, "are the light of this age and the spirit of this century.  Expound each of them at every gathering.
The first is investigation of truth,
The second, the oneness of mankind,
The third, universal peace,
The fourth, conformity between science and divine revelation,
The fifth, abandonment of racial, religious, worldly and political prejudices, prejudices which destroy the foundation of mankind.
The sixth is righteousness and justice,
The seventh, the betterment of morals and heavenly education,
The eighth, the equality of the two sexes,
The ninth, the diffusion of knowledge and education,
The tenth, economic questions, and so on and so forth."23
Teachings stated in so universal a form as to appeal to all races, religions and types of minds, from the least unto the greatest.
Teachings reinforced by the divine Holy Spirit which creates men anew:  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh transform, like a divine elixir, the baser metals of human nature into the shining gold of love, sacrifice, illumination.  They open the eyes of the spiritually blind, unstop the ears of the deaf and make the simple, the humble, even the children eloquent apostles.  "Through them flows the river of Divine Knowledge and bursts the fire of the consummate wisdom of the Eternal."
Creative words that burn away from human hearts the prejudices, hatreds, superstitions that divide religions and
page 230
races:  Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá have already united a great multitude, drawn from all kindreds, all peoples and religions into the most universal spiritual brotherhood which the world has ever known.  "Consider the power of the Covenant," said 'Abdu'l-Bahá to a group of visitors in 'Akká in 1909.  "Before the coming of Bahá'u'lláh it was absolutely impossible for a Zoroastrian to be united with a Jew, a Siyyid (descendant of Muhammad), and a Mullá; and for these to be united with a Christian was impossible.  But the power of (his) covenant has so gathered them together that they seem like one spirit.  Although the bodies are many, the spirit is one."
The lives and deeds of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá are so perfect as to be themselves the teaching that they proclaim.  The Word was made flesh and all who had eyes to see beheld its glory.  Professor T. K. Cheney of Oxford University, higher critic and Bible scholar, tells of his doubts and perplexities; and then of how there came to his study one day, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, who made all things new.  Whereupon he studied the life of Bahá'u'lláh with all the rigor of the higher and historical critic, and could find no sin in him.  He was, indeed, wrote Professor Cheney, what his followers loved to call him, the Blessed Perfection.
Bahá'u'lláh established the tree of his Cause in the midst of the most terrible storms of persecution and opposition from a host of enemies.  Forty years he was an exile and a prisoner.  But he withstood all his enemies like a mountain, until his light shone forth triumphant and illumined the world.
"And some of his signs are the unfoldment of prophecies and glad tidings, the appearance of proofs and references-the expectations of the pure and devout-and they are of those who attain.
"And some of his signs are his steadfastness before the great nations and powerful governments, even before a host of enemies, who shed blood and strive to wreck the divine edifice in every time and place.  Verily, therein is a thought for those who reflect upon the signs of God.
"And some of his signs are the wonders of his explanations, the eloquence of his utterances, the rapidity of revealing his words, verses, addresses, communes, interpretations of the symbols and illustrations of the parables.  By thy life, the Cause is evident and clear to those who see with the eyes of justice!"-From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
'Abdu'l-Bahá in the following words, spoken to some visitors at Haifa in the winter of 1920, sums up a few of the proofs of the mission of Bahá'u'lláh:
"Among the proofs are the teachings of the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh), teachings such as have not been given since the beginning of the world.  These teachings are for all mankind and in them is to be found the highest degree of counsel-advise in the utmost eloquence and beauty of expression, morals in the highest degree of perfection, politics in the highest degree of perfection, laws of the utmost firmness, public management most perfectly regulated.  Whatever the world of humanity needs is found here.  All the religions of the world see the utmost perfection of man in these teachings. ...  The teachings and exhortations which His Holiness Christ gave the Christians can be found in Bahá'u'lláh's teachings.  Politics are in the Qur'án:  the Muslims can find political science of the most perfect order in the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  Such fundamental things as are useful, such as equality and freedom-these can be found in the laws of Bahá'u'lláh. ...  The teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are all-inclusive.  Other teachings are like branches; but the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh are like the trunk of a tree which sends out all the branches.
"These are from a person who never entered a school, who had never known a teacher, who had never associated with
page 231
people of learning and who had from his early life been in utmost tribulation.  Such teachings are most illuminating.  Such teachings are divine.  What greater proofs than these!
"The Cause of the Blessed Beauty in every possible way is clearly proved.  The proof is not of one kind only, but of all kinds.  One is at a loss to know which proof to begin with.  For example, in Europe, in the great assemblies, talks were given.  I spoke to eminent people.  I remember that one day I met a Member of Parliament.  He asked me:  'What is the proof of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh?  I want it in a concise and useful form.'  I said:  'The concise and sufficient proof is that Bahá'u'lláh in such a prison as 'Akká, and when under chains, raised his banner.  In Tihrán he was in prison and under chains.  In 'Akká he was in prison.  Under these circumstances he raised his banner.'  When I mentioned this proof he became very silent.  I said:  'There is nothing recorded comparable to this.  What power is this, that from the beginning of the world until today such a thing has not happened!'"
When, through an independent investigation of truth, we find the divine physician, the captain who can guide us safely through the storms into the promised kingdom of peace, then we entrust our lives to his guidance-his guidance and his teachings.
What is the Bahá'í Covenant?
The Bahá'í covenant is an agreement which God takes with those who recognize His latest Manifestation that they will live according to the teachings which He reveals through His Chosen Ones.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá says:  "According to the irrefutable text He has taken from us a firm covenant that we may live and act according to the divine exhortations, commands and lordly teachings."  "If a person lives for one day according to those divine exhortations and teachings (that is, as revealed in The Hidden Words) he will be assisted to move the visible and invisible world."  These teachings, "descended from the Realm of Glory, uttered by the Tongue of Power and Might and revealed to the Messengers of old", shine from the pages of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá like a world-illuminating sun, dispelling the darkness of nature and ushering in the day of the oneness of mankind, the oneness of religions, universal peace.  But the centre of them all, the most great characteristic of this new revelation from God, is the Centre of the Covenant.  In every cycle the Centre of the Covenant is, first, the Great Prophet who reveals the covenant to his age.  The divine, universal Manifestations of God live their teachings so perfectly that they are not only its centre, they are the Covenant.  Their pure teachings and pure deeds flow like a fountain ever new, from the Ocean of the Ever-Living.
But when the Great Prophet ascends from this world how is the unity which he establishes upon earth to be maintained?  As long as the followers of Moses, of Muhammad and the Christ had a centre of unity they were the spiritual transformers of the world.  But when self-seeking leaders began to interpret their revelations, each one creating "a party round about himself", sects and divisions arose and the army of light lost its power.  Without unity of command the soldiers of God can never scatter the forces of darkness.  Therefore the Centre of the Covenant is the essence of the Covenant.
"The Bahá'ís," says 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "are ordered to establish the oneness of mankind.  If they cannot unite around one point how will they be able to bring about the unity of mankind?"  Bahá'u'lláh, in order that God's glorious purpose, of uniting in the Latter Day the divergent peoples and religions into one fold might be fulfilled, bade his disciples, in his last will and testament and in many epistles, to turn after his pass-
page 232
ing to the one whom God had purposed, the one branched from the Pre-Existent Stock-'Abdu'l-Bahá.  "The purpose of the Blessed Beauty in entering into this Covenant and Testament was to gather all existent beings around one point so that the thoughtless souls, who in every cycle and generation have been the cause of dissension, may not undermine the Cause."24
"There were dissensions after the departure of Christ because there had been no centre appointed."25  "In former cycles no distinct covenant was made in writing by the Supreme Pen and no distinct personage was appointed to be the standard differentiating falsehood from truth."26
"Inasmuch as great differences and divergences of denominational belief had arisen throughout the past, every man with a new idea attributing it to God, Bahá'u'lláh desired that there should not be any ground or reason for disagreement among the Bahá'ís.  Therefore, with His own pen He wrote the Book of His Covenant, addressing His relations and all people of the world, saying, 'Verily, I have appointed One Who is the Centre of My Covenant.  All must obey Him; all must turn to Him; He is the Expounder of My Book, and He is informed of My purpose.  All must turn to Him.  Whatsoever He says is correct, for, verily, He knoweth the texts of My Book.  Other than He, no one doth know My Book.'  The purpose of this statement is that there should never be discord and divergence among the Bahá'ís but that they should always be unified and agreed."27
For thirty years 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant, through the inspiration of God, united members of all religions and peoples into a spiritual oneness which encircles the world.  He lived so gloriously the teachings of the Covenant that he was, himself, the Covenant of God's oneness.
In order that the disciples of Bahá might maintain their perfect unity and through that unity become the spiritual transformers of the world, 'Abdu'l-Bahá also wrote a last Will and Testament, naming in clear, indubitable words the collective centre whom God had chosen after his ascension.  He entered into a covenant with all his followers that they should follow and obey this Centre.  This Centre of Bahá'í unity named by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, this dayspring of guidance, this chosen one of God, this Guardian of the Cause is the glorious and inspired youth, Shoghi Effendi.  When the Universal Spiritual Assembly shall be elected, from all the Bahá'ís of the world, Shoghi Effendi will be its life-long head.  They will apply the divine teachings to the new problems, the new world conditions.
Thus can the lovers of the light in the Day of God attain unity of action through unity of guidance; thus will they avoid the sectarian divisions of past ages, by turning to the one centre which God has appointed.  To love and follow that Centre is to attain perfect freedom, for freedom is not found in following all the new ideas that chance to arise in the individual's mind, ideas that often separate and divide, cause war and dissension.  True freedom is attained by every individual's obeying in perfect joy the will, the law of God as revealed in His Chosen Ones.  "Say:  True liberty consisteth in man's submission unto My commandments, little as ye know it.  Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect liberty. ...  Say:  The liberty that profiteth you is to be found nowhere except in complete servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth.  Whoso hath tasted of its sweetness will refuse to barter it for all the dominion of earth and heaven."28


XIV:8, November 1923
page 235
Arabian civilization
Jináb-i-Fádil
The Arabian peninsula is a vast desert inhabited from time immemorial by Bedouin tribes, and Arabs, who, with their camels and horses roamed over the great stretches of that land and on it pitched their tents.  Until the coming of Muhammad, six centuries after Christ, these people developed no distinct civilization.  The Bedouin tribes of Arabia were, however, before the time of Muhammad possessed of certain excellent qualities, such as generosity, faithfulness, loyalty and hospitality.  Because of the dry, hot climate of the desert their mode of life was extremely simple, and they wore but little clothing.  They were a physically powerful race, many of them able to outrun even their own horses.  Like these famous steeds they were fiery and quick-tempered.  Yet they possessed qualities upon which a sturdy nation could be built.
The Arabs are Semitic in origin, descended from Shem.  As the many tribes were separated from each other their language resolved itself into a number of dialects.  Each tribe lived independently, under the leadership of a chief-a shaykh or amír.  But as a nation they were always influenced, or governed by the Romans, the Greeks or the Persians.
Previous to Muhammad their religion was Sabeanism, which is star worshipping.  Each tribe had a star, signifying a deity, and Arabia abounded in small temples dedicated to the gods of the stars.  Of these many temples the most important was at Mecca, "Head of Towns", where all the religious groupings and crude ideals of the Arabs were assembled, and then disseminated.  This chief Arabian city of Mecca contained hundreds of idols, one of which was very ancient, and thousands of pilgrims from all parts of Arabia came to Mecca to worship in wild, barbaric fashion, their rites including the sacrifice of their own children.
The chief and daily occupation of these people was tribal warfare and internal feuds.  To make war was regarded as evidence of courage; and each tribe had its particular method of carrying on warfare with other tribes.  Century after century they fought.  This kept them weak as a nation; therefore any foreign power could gain control over them because of their disorganized state.  They had, also, many blameworthy practices, such as polygamy and drinking.  They considered the birth of a daughter such a disgrace that they often buried a girl baby alive rather than let her grow up to mortify the family.  The advent of a son they hailed with delight for here was one who could perpetuate the traditions of the family.
This, in brief, is a picture of the life of the Arabs at about AD six hundred-nomadic, quarrelsome bands of people, courageous and generous, yet possessed of many unadmirable qualities.  In one section, only, a district called Yemen, was there really any civilization.  Here, many eminent kings and rulers had reigned, developing a certain kind of culture.  One of these rulers was the Queen of Sheba, referred to in the Old Testament.
The only literature developed by the Arabs was poetry.  They loved and honoured a poet and regarded him as inspired.  Once a year, at Mecca, a great festival was held, when the tribes from all parts of Arabia gathered, to exchange their merchandise.  Here the poets came also, and read their compositions to the people.  A group of judges selected the best poem which was then hung upon the wall of the sacred temple there to stay until the following year, when it would either be removed to give
page 236
place to a better poem, or permitted to remain for many years, because it had no rival.
When Christ arose, even his divine light did not penetrate to these ancient temples of idolatry.  A few of the Arabians accepted him, believing in a strange version of the trinity, and worshipping the Heavenly Father, Christ and the Mother of Christ.  There were also among the tribes several descendants of Jacob who professed a belief in the Old Testament, but this belief in God, which came either through Christian theology or Mosaic creeds, was not strong enough to illumine this ancient idol-worshipping nation.
Previous to Muhammad the Arabs had no written language, but with his advent a new chapter opened in their history, an era of philosophy, science and ethics, for he ushered in a world-wide civilization.
Muhammad belonged to the family of Quraysh (Koreish), whose members were the custodians of the key of the temple of Mecca, the greatest honour which the Arabians possessed.  His ancestors were able men; his uncle, Abú Tálib, was counted one of the wisest and most honoured poets of the land.  Muhammad's parents died when he was a small child.  He was brought up by an uncle, according to the simple life of his country, and received no education whatever.  As a young man, occupied with his uncle's business, he showed a character so sincere and straightforward that the people respected and loved him.  He was called Muhammad the Faithful, Muhammad the Truthful.  Then, at the age of forty, he started upon his great career as a religious teacher, and invited the people to the Oneness of God.
We have a clear, historical account of how Muhammad came to the realization of his relation to God, and his mission.  Forty days he spent, in a cave near Mecca, meditating, fasting and praying.  At the end of that time he came forth, with words of inspiration on his lips and a deep conviction that he had a message to deliver to his people.  He confided this to his wife, a very remarkable woman, spiritual, and with executive ability which enabled her to carry on large business enterprises.  She believed in him and encouraged him in his conviction that he had received a great message and must deliver it.
The story was told, in the symbolic language of that time that, while in the cave near Mecca, Muhammad had a vision in which he saw a beautiful being descend from heaven, who commanded him to recite certain words, God's first revelation to him.  This heavenly being was called Gabriel, or, the Holy Spirit, and his messages to Muhammad founded the religion of Islám.
Muhammad's inspired writings begin thus:  "Read, in the name of your Lord, who is He that creates!  He created man from the embryo.  Read!  Your Lord is the most generous; it is He who guides the pen.  He taught the human mind all it did not know."  They end with the words:  "Today I have completed your religion and made it Islám (peace)."  The revelations of Muhammad, adapted to the needs of the time, descended from on high during a period of twenty-three years.  They were written upon anything he could find, often the bones of sheep, and were finally collected into the Qur'án, which was the first religious text-book of the Islamic world, and the first book written in the Arabic language.
The Qur'án planted in the minds of the Arabian people the seeds of the belief in One Invisible, Eternal God, which flowered into a spiritual and moral civilization.  It established among them the principle of divine reward and punishment and gave the moral teachings of justice, love, faithfulness, purity, etc.  Barbaric practices were abolished and a new, spiritual consciousness was developed.  This in a short time became the mighty tree of a spiritual and scientific civilization which spread its branches
page 237
from the East to the West.  And the Qur'án was the prototype for thousands of ethical, mystical and spiritual books.
Of unity Muhammad said:  "O People of the Sacred Book!  Come in and unite in one common centre.  Believe in the One God and worship no one beside Him."  He also said:  "The believers of any religion, whether they be Sabaean, Jew, Christian or Zoroastrian, if they believe in God and are doing good they should have no fear or unhappiness."  Of forgiveness he said:  "The believers are they who forgive in the face of calumny.  If the ignorant curse them they will reply, 'Peace be unto you'."
The Arabs were submerged in a sea of idolatry, having as many gods as they could find of stars and planets in the heavens, therefore a very complicated polytheism prevailed.  Muhammad's great service to his people was his declaration of the Oneness of God, the Singleness of the Deity, Who is the Creator of even the highest beings, and far beyond the limited minds of men.  The divine power in this teaching destroyed the belief in many deities-the chief cause of dispute among the Arabs.  Realizing the greatness of this new truth, they naturally desired to spread it among their fellowmen.  The keepers of the various temples, who represented the privileged class and the vested interests of Arabia could not permit the old ideas to be overthrown unchallenged; therefore there was much opposition to Muhammad and his followers.  Yet, Muhammad's whole life had been so blameless and pure that the people respected and loved him and believed him to be truthful.  Therefore, when he claimed to have received a revelation from God they believed him to be sincere, especially since his teachings were so clearly fitted to the needs of the times.  The eloquence and poetry of his inspired words were so compelling that all the poets of Arabia took them for their model.
The Qur'án is a book of epigrams, the teachings of Muhammad given in a poetic and epigrammatic style suited to the minds and thought of the Arabian people.  Muhammad told his disciples to travel among the Arabian tribes, teaching the singleness of God, and to work unceasingly, until all the idols were broken down, and the worship of the One God was established.  During the twenty-three years that he himself taught Arabia was rent with great wars, instigated by the chiefs of the different tribes in their effort to annihilate the religion of Islám.  Finally, through divine power, all the enemies of the faith were defeated, and, before Muhammad's death the Oneness of God was well established.
In the Qur'án Muhammad gave the history of the lives of Isaac, Jacob, Moses, the Jewish prophets, and Christ, explaining their spiritual power and their teachings.  Previous to this the Arabian people had not believed in any of them, but Muhammad, through his teachings, brought them to believe in all of the prophets of Israel and in Christ, thus rendering a great service to Arabia.  Referring to the prophets of Israel, and others, Muhammad said that God had sent for every people a guardian, who spoke their tongue.  A chapter of the Qur'án is devoted to a history of Mary, the mother of Jesus.  He called Christ the Word of God, and the Spirit of God.  Therefore, the Muslim world today, because of the teaching of Muhammad, believes in the prophetic station of these great spiritual teachers.  The teaching of the principle of the Oneness of God united the Arabian tribes, put an end to their feuds and brought them to agree upon ideals for common progress.
Muhammad was not only a religious teacher, he was a statesman and a king.  His book contains many rules for moral and spiritual training, and also many regulations for the conduct of the practical affairs of the Islamic world.  He abolished the custom of burying daughters alive and also many other vices.  The
page 238
life of Arabia was transformed and the Arabs became a new people, noble and high-minded, guided by a new force and ruled by a new motive.  After twenty-three years of incessant labour Muhammad passed from this world, leaving behind him eighty thousand staunch, zealous followers and an Arabian nation, united under the banner of Islám.
Before the end of the first century after Muhammad his religion had been carried by his apostles to Asia and to parts of Africa and Europe.  Just as the Old Testament became the foundation for the Jewish civilization, so the Qur'án became the foundation for the civilization of Islám.  The second century after Muhammad was marked by great works on philosophy and science.  Brilliant minds appeared, not only among the Arabs, but throughout the Islamic world.  With the spread of the religion of Islám into many lands the Arabic tongue spread also and came to be regarded as a sacred language.  What had been practically a dead language now became one of the most scholarly and, in the first century after Muhammad, many text-books, dictionaries, etc., were written in Arabic.
Muhammad taught his disciples to study the sciences.  One of his epigrams is:  "Study science, even if you must travel to China."  China was, in those days, a very long way off.  Again he said:  "A man must study, from the cradle to the grave."  This teaching filled the Arabian scholars with a longing for knowledge and in the middle of the second century a great Academy of Science was founded in the city of Baghdád, which was then the seat of the Arabian government.  The Caliphs of Baghdád were patrons of science and letters and they brought from all parts of the world Jewish, Christian and Persian scholars, who formed a school of translators.  From among the philosophers of Greece nineteen were chosen, whose works were translated into Arabic, and the writings of learned Hindus and Persians were also translated and taught in the Arabic universities.
In a short while Baghdád, Basrah, Bokhárá, Alexandria, Cairo, Morocco and Spain became celebrated centres of learning.  Brilliant authors, in all departments of science appeared, and hundreds of schools and libraries arose.  Observatories for astronomical research were founded, and students travelled to every part of the world in search of particular text-books, and all kinds of knowledge.  The Islamic rulers sent out especially trained scholars that they might travel and bring back information, and in some libraries there were more than a hundred thousand books.  Universities were established in Baghdád and Andalusia, and to their doors came many students from all over the world, especially for the study of medicine and chemistry.
From the sixth to the ninth centuries, when the Islamic world was actively studying science, expanding and spreading, Europe was submerged in the darkness of ignorance.  A period of complete stagnation prevailed, all over Europe, until that country awoke from the sleep of the Dark Ages and put forth an effort to acquire knowledge.  Having no scientific text-books of their own many Europeans went to the Islamic schools in Andalusia, studied Arabic for many years, and then translated into Latin such works as those of Avicenna, Rází, Túsi, Averroes, Albucasis, al-Ghazzálí, Avenpace, Jábir and others.  By this means several educational institutions were established in Europe.  Andalusia and Cordova, seats of Arabic learning, became so famous that a great religious leader, who later became Pope, enrolled himself, in the year 999, as a student.  Afterwards he spread through southern Europe the knowledge gained in Islamic universities.  Many professors from universities in England and France became students of universities in Arabia, and Arabic words became a part of European languages.
One of the Popes of Rome, Clement XI, arranged for a party to travel to the East in order to secure scientific data.


XIV:8, November 1923
page 245
A Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
O thou servant of the Sacred Threshold!
The stability of every throne and the security of the seat of every sovereign are dependent upon the grace of God and are based upon the power of Divine assistance.  All the Chiefs and Rulers of the West, Emperors and Kings, that they may establish firmly their rule and dominion over their peoples, proclaim and hold fast unto this saying of Peter, the Apostle:  "In truth, all authority is of God", that is to say every sovereignty is established and exercised in accordance with the Divine Purpose.  By this means, they assure the sanctity of their throne and proclaim the sacredness of their sovereignty.
And now, consider and reflect!  How often are rulers and governments praised and extolled in the Holy Writ of Bahá'u'lláh and how frequently allegiance and loyalty to Kings and Monarchs are enjoined upon every one!  Ponder in your hearts and realize what the result will be in future!
Gracious God!  They that are in authority are as yet unaware of this most great bounty bestowed upon them and know not what a rich blessing the Lord hath vouchsafed unto the rulers and governors of the world.
At this hour, in the uttermost parts of the earth, even in the continent of America, peoples are praying on behalf of the Chief and Ruler of Persia and praise and glorify his name.  Ere long, ye shall see how the government of Bahá'u'lláh's native land will have become the most advanced country in all the regions of the world.
This indeed is supreme bounty and a warning unto every beholder!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Translated by Shoghi Effendi.


XIV:9, December 1923
page 259
Through pride will man be reduced to the lowest rank
Stanwood Cobb
A peculiar inspiration comes to one from perusing the word of God in a foreign language.  That first vivid impression, veiled by long familiarity with the text as it exists in English, has been restored to me in all its freshness upon reading the Hidden Words in German.
One verse has especially impressed me, both from its meaning and from some of the experiences of my travels.  "Wegen der sterblichen Herrschaft weniger Tage habt ihr Meine unsterbliche Herrschaft verworfen, euch selbst in rote und gelbe Gewänder gekleidet und damit geprahlt.  Ich erkläre bei Meiner Schönheit, dass Ich euch alle unter das gleichgefärbte Zelt des Staubes bringen und die Farben von allen entfernen werde, nur nicht von denen, welche Meine Farbe, rein von allen andern, erwählten."  "For a fleeting sovereignty of a few days have you abandoned My imperishable dominion and arrayed yourselves in mortal hues and pride yourselves therein.  I declare by My beauty, that I will bring you all under the uni-coloured canopy of dust and take away the colour from all, except from those who have chosen My colour, pure from all others."
Bahá'u'lláh has said that it is better to read one Hidden Word than hundreds of pages of any other literature.  Therefore, let us meditate somewhat on the significance of this mighty utterance.  Let us consider some of the examples of fallen glory.
In passing through Holland on our way to Germany, our train went close by Doorn, where William II languishes in exile.  Our thoughts were much upon him.  When we reached Berlin we found his former palace turned into a museum.  I shall never forget the impression received upon traversing these corridors and rooms and gorgeous halls, so recently consecrated to the glory of the Hohenzollern House.  There had been a time when every gateway and approach was sternly guarded; when at the bugle calls announcing the forth-riding of His Majesty, the sidewalk crowds and traffic of the street had drawn aside in breathless, almost religious silence to make way for the through-passing of this mortal glory.  And now the common crowd invaded the erstwhile halls of imperial grandeur.  Yes, penetrated even to that holy of holies, the golden throne room, access to which had been esteemed so high!
I was reminded of the so-similar fate of the tyrant 'Abdu'l-Hamíd's palace at Yildiz, in the immediate period subsequent to his forced abdication in the Revolution of 1908.  Here, too, the common crowds had penetrated, eager and curious, to see the interior of that sac-
page 260
rosanct, guarded as few palaces have ever been.  As I went through it at that time I was struck by the carelessness of the guards, and the flippancy of the amused crowd thronging these secret and treasured rooms-a natural reaction against their former terror of the Sultán.
It was during the last days of 'Abdu'l-Hamíd that 'Abdu'l-Bahá's life was so seriously threatened.  Then in a few days we saw the captive of injustice set free to make his glorious and victorious journey through Europe and America; while the former Sultán, whose rule had been for thirty years the most absolute in the world, was to languish out his life in a sad and miserable captivity.
In the museum at Leipzig we were held spellbound by Lehnbach's portrait of Bismarck.  Those wonderful eyes of the great diplomat and statesman glowed from the canvas with a cold blue flame.  They were eyes before which no man could stand in opposition; eyes revealing the great mind, the invincible will, the gigantic magnetism of the man who moulded Europe to his desire.  Yet that mind and will and magnetism had to yield before the determination of the imperial young master to rule alone.  And not only did Bismarck's life end in dismissal and exile from the court whose glory he had created, but we see now the utter failure and collapse of all the structure he built up by "blood and iron".  Only there remains the good that he conceived and executed-the unity of the great German people formerly divided into kingdoms and duchies and free cities at constant fratricidal war.  So God uses man to forward that which is good; and that which man does of evil is quickly frustrated.
In the same gallery was a wonderful picture of that other great conqueror and superman, Napoleon.  How he stormed over Europe, terrifying whole populations, making and unmaking kings, and moulding states to suit his will; yet he lived to see his conquests come to naught, a helpless prisoner on a lonely isle.  In the Corcoran Gallery at Washington is a statue of him as in his dying days, looking out over life with still his great will and invincible spirit, learning perhaps certain lessons of the spirit.
In his Memories of the War Time 1806-1813, Friedrich von Mueller, Chancellor of Weimar, which we visited while passing through Germany, tells us of his interview with Napoleon, in which he sought pardon and safety for his master, Carl August, Duke of Weimar.  Napoleon was very angry with the duke for having fought against him on the side of Prussia; angry, also, because the duke did not now immediately abandon allegiance to his over-lord, the King of Prussia.  To secure this audience the duke's chancellor had followed Napoleon humbly and beseechingly from Weimar to Erfurt, from Erfurt to Raumburg, from Raumburg to Wittenberg, from Wittenberg to Potsdam.  At last Napoleon granted the long-sought-for interview:  It is a dramatic scene, as described by Mueller.  (I translate from the German.)
"Finally came the longed-for moment.  I was called into the imperial cabinet, in the midst of which, in rather a defiant attitude, stood Napoleon in his green Chasseur-uniform, his hat under his arm. ...  The Emperor broke out into the bitterest reproaches over the conduct of the Duke, my Master. ...  'You see,' he said, 'what I did with the Duke of Braunschweig.  I will drive these wolves in the employ of Italy back to those they came from.  Like this hat,' here he threw it angrily to the ground, 'will I overthrow and humiliate them.  And I have a great desire to do so with your prince.'
"'By Heaven, if one has not at least a hundred thousand men and a goodly count of cannon, one had better not undertake war with me.  These Prussians had as much and more, but what help was that to them?  I have scattered them like spray in the wind, I have crushed them down, and they will not lift their heads again.'"
page 261
What a picture of despotic power!  The great conqueror asserting his might and prowess; the faithful servant pleading for the throne of his master, who had done no ill but to fulfil his duty to the King of Prussia.  After much storming, Napoleon softened and promised to keep the duke upon his throne.  "But," and here he spoke again in fiery mood, "let your duke well understand, that he owes his land and his political existence only and solely to the high respect, the deep friendship which I have for his wife, the duchess and for her worthy sister."
Of no man is there recorded such an impression of over-mastering power as of this world conqueror.  Women hung their heads and blushed as he walked past them.  His bravest, roughest generals became tame and awe-inspired in his presence.  For a time he held Europe in the hollow of his hand, and there seemed no deliverance.
But Goethe's mother, writing to Weimar in this period of storm and stress from Mainz, which had fallen into the possession of Napoleon, says, "Yet God still lives, and everything can turn out better than many now believe.  A single moment can change everything."
And so it turned out.  Napoleon's power went to ruin more quickly even than it had been built up.
One more example of fallen glory comes to mind-the greatest example in history of a terrifying, conquering empire smashed suddenly to pieces!  When Sennacherib, the great Assyrian king, was on his way to conquer Egypt, he stopped at a walled city of an insignificant little kingdom and called upon it to surrender.  It was a city and a kingdom hardly worthy of his conquest, and worthy of his attention only because it lay in his line of march and communications, and its existence as a stronghold had become to the Assyrians a danger.
It was the general opinion that the city should be immediately surrendered.  The councillors so advised, the people so clamoured, and the king was so minded.  For woe to that city which resisted Assyria and then was conquered.  Death, destruction, tortures unspeakable for the leading defenders-this was the policy of frightfulness that had made the word "Assyrians" a name to terrify even babes with, and had lowered the courage and resistance of those whom Assyria would conquer.
One man alone stood out against the decision to surrender.  It was Isaiah, the man of God.  To the thundering, earth-shaking armies of Sennacherib he had nothing to oppose but the invisible power and protection of Jehovah.  He alone had no fear.  By his fiery and inspired words he aroused new courage in the people, the councillors, the king.  He promised them safety.  He assured them of the invisible protection.
And in one night a plague coming from the marshes of Egypt so smote the Assyrian army, killing a hundred and eighty-five thousand, that "Sennacherib, king of Assyria, departed", to use the simple and quaintly expressive language of the Bible, "and went and returned, and dwelt at Nineveh."
The Assyrian empire vanished as magically as it had arisen.  Within less than a hundred years after Sennacherib so threatened the destruction of Jerusalem, Nineveh, the capital of Assyria, fell before the combined armies of the Chaldeans and Medes and Persians.  The terrible scourge of the East was at last laid low.  "Its fall was forever.  When two centuries later Xenephon and his ten thousand Greeks marched past the place, the Assyrian nation was but a vague tradition, and Nineveh, its great city, was a vast heap of rubbish as it is today.  Even the Assyrian speech had passed away."29
Read in Nahum, Chapter 3, the rejoicing of Israel at the downfall of this wicked and terrific city.  This passage gives a vivid picture of the fallen greatness of Assyria, one of the most power-
page 262
ful militaristic empires known to history, which for all its superb war-strength ended in dust.
__________
From these noteworthy examples which history offers, and from many other examples of near and far times, one may see how prone to fall is mortal glory.  Over-weaning pride is destined to destruction.  However great man's will, he cannot battle against God.
So profoundly were the ancient Greeks impressed with this vulnerability of earthly princes, that they dreaded a too great success; dreaded, above all, the pride that is wont to come with success.  For they feared the jealousy of the gods, and believed the only safeguard lay in propitiatory sacrifices.  We know today that the only sacrifices God wants from men of success and high position are gratitude, humility, and service; and that the only safety in such altitudes is guidance.
If we reflect we can very easily see why unlimited power of will cannot be granted to mortals.  What would become of the universe if men of such gigantic wills as Bismarck or Napoleon should go on attaining more and more of power, here and in the next existence?
Would not the whole universe become an anarchy, a war between demonic wills?  We have seen what havoc such conflicts make of the fair earth we live upon.  Shall the heavens themselves become but the theatre of war?  For selfish, egoistic wills can never attain to unity and harmony among themselves.  Each seeks to predominate, but no one is powerful enough to eternally hold rule.
Our very conception of the universe is against this.  The word, itself, by derivation, means unity, organization, a revolving of solar systems according to one plan.  And whose will shall prevail throughout the universe, save His?
But God's will is not, like man's will, a domination, but a will of love and guidance.  It does not seek to crush, but to perfect.  What a wonderful example of this was afforded us in the life of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He did not give commands.  He offered opportunities for service.  Never did one feel His will infringing upon one's personal freedom.  It was offered us only as a guidance, as a gift of love.  If we did not accept, it was our loss, and his grief.
Nor did he ever seek to dazzle strangers by the greatness of his station, by any manifestation of His power.  Those who had capacity to see, were permitted at times to see him as power.  But his power was gently and mercifully veiled from others.
So God works.  He could in a moment convince all men of His supremacy.  But he chooses not to do so.  They must convince themselves.  They must discover Him.  If they do not choose to do so, they are permitted to conceive of and worship themselves as power, until the time comes for a striking lesson.
Even then God works not in anger, but as the Great Educator, leading us on by rewards and punishments to a knowledge of His Truths.  Those who employ their abilities to the utmost are given power.  That is their reward.  But if they do not ascribe that power to God, they are eventually humiliated.  That is their punishment.
Every human will must be turned to God, and revolve about His will.  I am so convinced of this, not only from the teachings of God's word, and from the deductions of reason, but also from observations based on life and from history, that wherever I see a human will set itself up to rule and reign in a pride that is forgetful of God, I know a crash is imminent.  It is true of individuals, it is true of nations, it is true of our whole planet.
In this day and generation, although we are unaware of it, we are all living perilously near this eminence of pride.  The whole Occident has become so confident of its powers over nature through
page 263
scientific knowledge, so puffed with pride over its achievements, that it has forgotten God.  I hesitate to think of the lessons that may be in store for our planet.
If we, as Bahá'ís, cannot turn other men to the consciousness of God, we can at least increase that consciousness in ourselves, until we realize God as "the One Power which animates and dominates all things."
It is not without reason that Bahá'u'lláh has given us the daily prayer:  "I testify that Thou hast made us to know Thee and to adore Thee.  I testify that at this moment I am powerless and Thou art powerful, I am weak and Thou art mighty, I am poor and Thou art rich."  If we can say that and feel that daily, we are safe under the shadow of His protection.  Otherwise we are in danger of vanity and egoistic pride; for there is no temptation to which man, even spiritual man, is more subject than that of ascribing power and glory to himself instead of to God.
Not only our own safety, but the safety of the Bahá'í Cause, lies in this humility and evanescence.  For where there is self-will and pride, there is emulation, envy, recrimination, disharmony, and eventually a loss of all spiritual power from the individual and from the group.
There is only one road to advancement in the Kingdom.  "Verily man is uplifted to the heaven of glory and power through Meekness; again, through Pride, is he degraded to the lowest station."


XIV:9, December 1923
page 263
The spiritual physician
Tablet to Mr Charles Greenleaf
O thou who art attracted to God, may God uphold thee!
I implore God, the Ever-Living, the Everlasting, to assist thee to spread the spirit of life under all circumstances and conditions, to cheer thy breast by the eternal secret and the hidden mystery, as mentioned in the Bible, the Gospel and Psalms, that thou mayest arise to spread the Most Great Glad Tidings in those regions, to express thyself with an effective power which penetrates into the realities of all things, that thy face may brilliantly shine among the beloved, that the utterances falling from thy tongue in the great public meetings may be like the flowing and running waters, and that the Holy Spirit may confirm thee in the most great assemblies-if thy face be sincerely turned to God, thy heart pure, and thou sacrificest to thy Lord thy spirit, thy personality, thy soul and thy heart, so that nothing is left of thee, neither thought, mention, voice, or even a whisper, save the word Yá Bahá'u'l-Abhá!  Set aside all desires, leave worldly matters, devote thyself to God, be filled with the Spirit, guide the people to safety and bring to them the holy fragrances which emanate from the Kingdom of Abhá.
By the life of Bahá, he who is filled with the love of Bahá, and forgets all things, the Holy Spirit will be heard from his lips and the Spirit of Life will fill his heart, the Lights of the Sign will shine forth from his face, words will issue from his mouth in strands of pearls, and all sickness and disease will be healed by the laying on of the hands.
Bahá is upon thee!
(Signed) 'Abdu'l-Bahá


XIV:9, December 1923
page 265
The shrine of the Master
From diary notes of Charles Mason Remey upon his visit to Haifa in March, 1922.
Early in the morning following my arrival in Haifa I went up the mountain alone to visit the Holy Tomb of the Master and that of the Báb.  I found Mírzá 'Abbás Qulí within the shrine placing handfuls of freshly cut flowers upon the thresholds of the inner chambers.
The arrangement of the three back chambers of the Tomb, which constitute the tomb proper of the Báb, are the same as formerly, but the three front chambers facing the north, instead of being used for various purposes, as formerly, now form the tomb of the Master.
Curtis Kelsey, who went to Haifa from America in order to install electric light plants at the Holy Tombs and in the Bahá'í Colony, has made an artistic arrangement in his wiring of the Tombs upon Mount Carmel and one quite in harmony with the style and character of the buildings.  The black iron lamps hang as formerly, suspended from the high, vaulted ceiling, but he has reversed the shades, thus giving the effect of an indirect lighting system.  The Venetian iron candelabra, in the inner shrine of the Báb, which the Master permitted me to make and place there some
page 266
years ago, is still hanging as before, with its nine tall candles, save that in the central sanctuary lamp, where formerly there hung a glass oil container with a floating wick, there is now an electric bulb.  A very powerful electric light is placed on the exterior of the tomb, directly above the main doorway to the north.  This is lighted every evening and it forms a focal point on the mountainside and is visible for many miles out at sea.
Several times, in the night, after the household had quieted, Lutfu'lláh Hakím and I climbed up the mountain to the Tomb of the Master, for a few moments of prayer before the door of the Shrine which at that late hour was invariably locked though lights from within might have led one to imagine the building to be open.  As is customary in the Orient, burial shrines of importance are kept illumined by night.  The Bahá'í sacred Shrines are never left in darkness.
I wish that I might adequately describe the spiritual experience of those nocturnal pilgrimages.  The beauty of the spot is beyond description in words.  In the clear, scintillating moonlight of the Orient the eye can see for many miles.  From this Holy Tomb, Mount Hermon, with its cap of snow, seventy or eighty miles distant, was distinctly visible in the clear moonlight.  About the Tomb are fragrant trees, shrubs and flowers.  On still nights, when there was little wind, the air would often be heavy with the fragrance of orange blossoms as we knelt on the doorsill pouring out our hearts in prayer and supplication. ...
__________
One evening during the visit, Shoghi Effendi brought with him to the Pilgrim House the original text of the blessed Testament of the Master.  We stood about the table as he reverently laid the package thereon, carefully unfolding the envelope from a silk handkerchief in which it was wrapped.  As he took the three Tablets from the cover we saw that each was in the handwriting of the Master-written, as Shoghi Effendi called our attention to witness-without hesitation or correction and signed by the Master in several places.  We stood with bated breath in the presence of this document of documents in which is contained the wondrous plan for the spiritual organization of the Cause of God and our guidance for a thousand or thousands of years.
The substance of the Testament was, of course, most unexpected.  No one could have anticipated its wonderful ordinances.  But as one studies it and imbibes its thought he sees at once that no other plan could have been made for guarding and preserving the Cause save the one which the Master has given in his Will.  Never have I read anything which gave me the joy and the inspiration that this holy document produced in my heart.  It filled my heart with the assurance that the Cause was safely guarded.  It gives us a fixed direction toward which to turn and a permanent centre about which we all are to revolve so long as we are in this world.


XIV:9, December 1923
page 266
Letters from Munírih Khánum
Letters from the wife of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Apostles of the Master
May my soul be a sacrifice to the steadfast in the Cause of God!
The first glad tidings, the first happiness and joy is the return of the Distinguished Branch to the Holy Land and the Holy Shrines.  This has gladdened the hearts of all the Bahá'ís.
The second, O spiritual sisters, and handmaids of the Merciful, is that, praise be to God! after the setting of the Light of the-World and the ascent of the Beloved of the World continuous glad tidings and good news have come to the Holy Shrines of the faithfulness of the friends in holding meetings for teaching, in serving the world of humanity, with unity, love, charity and kindness to the people of Bahá.  This brightens the tearstained eyes and heals the broken, wounded hearts.  In truth it should be
page 267
so.  For in the Blessed Will most of the exhortations are to this effect:  "Do not seek repose for a moment.  Do not rest for an instant.  Go forth to all parts of the world.  Be dispersed into every village and town.  Be not satisfied until you have given the Message in all the regions of the world."  We must look to the disciples of His Holiness Christ and see what they did after the crucifixion of their Lord.  Mary Magdalene was only a woman from Magdala, yet her star shines in the heaven of Christianity.  And Her Holiness the Pure, Qurratu'l-'Ayn, may my soul be a sacrifice to her! although the days of her sacrifice were not very many, yet she became a brilliant star in the heaven of the Cause of God.  Among the friends all over the world her name has become a symbol of sacrifice.
In former days there were many steadfast men who sacrificed their pure lives on the field of martyrdom.  But such deeds were unheard-of among women.  Now, praise be to God!  His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá has elevated the station of woman and has proclaimed that in this cycle man and woman are like the two wings of the bird.  Neither is superior to the other.  Girls must be educated as well if not better than boys.  And His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh has said that in this age there will appear women who will be the glory of men.  There is no doubt that the promises of the Prophets of God will be fulfilled.  And in a short while everything that Bahá'u'lláh said will come to pass.
As Jináb-i-Ávárih has told us, at the present time in Tihrán about fifty women, with hearts aflame, and brilliant, prepared to lecture and give explanations, are equipped for all kinds of service.  This news has indeed gladdened our hearts.  He has named the dear sisters and has asked that this one should write and let them know that this bereft mortal has made mention of them in the Holy Shrines.
O beloved sisters! praise be to God, that the field of service is vast and the hungry souls are many.  The seekers and the thirsty ones are waiting, and these women are ready!  But alas, that some of the people of Persia are bloodthirsty and unjust! ...
It is reported that two handmaids of the Merciful, one the daughter of the deceased Vazír-i-Mukaram of Isfahán and the other the granddaughter of Núayn-i-Nayyirayn, also of Isfahán, have started out to spread the Cause in their surrounding country.  This news has made us very happy.  The description of the meetings in Qazvín, and in the different cities of America also gave us great happiness.  It indeed indicates that the hope, the wish of all the friends is the spreading of the Cause of God.  We beseech the True One that He will keep them under His protection, and we hope that they may attain to that service which is worthy of His Threshold.
Alas, that now the Light of God has hidden itself and the peerless face has disappeared from among us and the sun of knowledge and forgiveness has set and the cause of joy and the foundation of happiness has chosen absence! ...  We hope that in this year the blessings of God and His heavenly bestowals will decree for the Bahá'ís results which will exceed all expectations.  We seek mercy for His servants.
The maidservant to the threshold of God,
(Signed) Munírih.
The glorious work of education
To the Friends of God.  To them be Glory!
It is plain and evident to everyone that the foundation of all life is education.  Were it not for the gift of education no one would have been created, nor would there be any (human) life.  In this great cycle and chosen century the Blessed Beauty (Bahá'u'lláh) may my life be a sacrifice to him! has made education important above all other
page 268
questions, giving it the highest place among God's blessings.  In many instances, in different places, in the holy Tablets and the divine Verses he has written and commanded every man and woman, every king, and every well-wisher of the nations to carry on this work, which is the highest and most honourable of all services before God.
In the day of His Holiness 'Abdu'l-Bahá, the question of education has again been given first place.  He has praised the promoters of this great work, for education has become a great necessity.  He has declared and explained God's displeasure with those who heed not this great command.  The writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá are full of this subject.  He especially advises the training of girls and women-of the girls of today who are the mothers of tomorrow.  It is manifest that the first tutor of the child is the mother.  If the mother is not endowed with heavenly morals and is not possessed of merciful qualities, and knowledge, she is indeed not fit for her work as educator.  And if she is not prepared to undertake the education of the children this is a sin.  It is clear, therefore, that the education of girls is most important.
Therefore, every merciful friend and handmaid of God, in every city and town, should do as much as possible to obey this great command, even if in their respective cities this work is already established.
Because this servant from early childhood has hoped for some means for the education of Bahá'í girls, I one day when in the presence of the Master, besought him that, if it were his wish, we might found here a small school for Bahá'í children, where they could, from the beginning, acquire Bahá'í morals, and learn the history of the Cause.  Pointing toward Mount Carmel, he said:  "This long mountain will be covered with schools, hospitals and Pilgrim Houses.  All that has been foretold will come to pass."  I said that I had in mind the little piece of land which Hájí Mírzá Hasan had given.  'Abdu'l-Bahá replied:
"There is a piece of land opposite the Holy Shrine.  'Abbás Qulí, the owner, at the Feast of Ridván offered it as a gift, and it was accepted.  We must purchase all the adjoining land.  That is a good location for a school.  It has beautiful scenery and pure air, and is near the Holy Shrines."
At that time the faithful leaf, Miss Sanderson, was at Haifa.  She asked permission to share in this work.  'Abdu'l-Bahá granted this request.  And the revered Mr Remey drew the plan for the school and presented it for the approval of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
We now have a large piece of land, and the fifteen hundred pounds which belonged to this one have been given to this work.  About a thousand pounds have come, from all parts of the world.  But the success of this undertaking depends entirely upon the assistance of the faithful friends.  We hope that in the day of the Distinguished Branch, with the help of the Holy Leaves and through the exertions of the beloved brothers and sisters, this work will be accomplished.
But this work must be carried out in accordance with the plans and arrangements of Shoghi Effendi, which are, that anyone who wishes to send a contribution to the school will do so in the name of the Holy Leaves, the daughters of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  And the receipt, signed by these four, Díyá'i'yyih Khánum, Rúhá Khánum, Tubá Khánum and Munavvar Khánum, will be forwarded to the donor.  The money contributed will be placed in the Bank of Haifa in the name of the aforementioned ladies until a sufficient sum has been collected.
Every great undertaking has had a small beginning; therefore, we must now also be satisfied with a small beginning.
(Signed) Munírih.


XIV:9, December 1923
page 269
Heralds of the new day
Adapted from addresses given in London by Jináb-i-Ávárih, whose great history of the Bahá'í Cause is now being published in Persian in Cairo, Egypt.
Qurratu'l-'Ayn
When Qurratu'l-'Ayn was a child there was in Persia a very celebrated mullá Shaykh Ahmad Ahsá'í.  So great a scholar was he that throughout all the Muslim world he had no peer.  Shaykh Ahmad Ahsá'í was the first divine to attack certain established beliefs prevalent among the Muslims, one of which was that Muhammad in his living, physical body departed from this earth and ascended into heaven, a belief similar to that held by many Christians with regard to the Christ.  There were other Muslims who in their heart disbelieved this teaching, but Shaykh Ahmad was the first who had the courage to publicly declare against it.
Another Muslim doctrine was that of the resurrection of the body.  Shaykh Ahmad taught his students that the physical body cannot go to heaven, that it will not rise but will disintegrate; while the spirit will be taken up and will dwell in the presence of God.  He explained that it was the spirit of Muhammad, not his body, which ascended.
Again, the Shaykh taught that God always sends teachers to His people, to lead them to His Kingdom, and that this divine bounty had not ceased.
The Muslims believed that there was one-who had been hidden for a thousand years-who would appear suddenly, a great teacher.  Shaykh Ahmad said that the Promised One would not come that way; he would be manifest shortly but would be born in the natural way.  This teaching of the Shaykh was of utmost importance to the Muslims, because for a thousand years they had been looking for this person who they believed had been in hiding for that period.  And now the Shaykh said he would be born, and would appear very shortly.
Although strictly forbidden by the mullás, these teachings found many adherents, until thousands of people became followers of Shaykh Ahmad.  They were popularly known as "Shaykhí", and by many of the mullás were called atheists.
At last the teachings of Shaykh Ahmad were carried to Qazvín, the home of Qurratu'l-'Ayn and her relatives.  Her father and her eldest uncle, both of whom were mullás, opposed the Shaykh.  But her two younger uncles believed him and secretly became his followers.  Qurratu'l-'Ayn's father and uncle had many discussions about the Shaykh, calling him, in private, "Káfár", which means, "Turned away from God and not of the Muslim religion".  Qurratu'l-'Ayn, then between thirteen and fourteen years of age, listened to these conversations and said, "The Shaykh is right and my father and uncle are wrong."  She secured the books and writings of the Shaykh and read them constantly.  Whereupon her father and uncle said to her, "Read our books.  Read our writings.  We know better than he."
Shaykh Ahmad Ahsá'í went from Karbilá to Khurásán and thence to Tihrán where he met Sháh Fath-'Alí who so honoured him that he offered to share with him his throne.  But the Shaykh refused, and left for Karbilá, on his journey passing through Qazvín.
After the death of Shaykh Ahmad Ahsá'í, his disciple Siyyid Kázim, carried forward his teachings, constantly telling his disciples and students that soon, within a few years, the Promised One would appear.  Through the assistance of her younger uncle, who believed in Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kázim, Qurratu'l-'Ayn and able to correspond with Siyyid Kázim and secure his writings.  She
page 270
watched eagerly for the Promised One, and often told her younger uncle that unless the new order appeared and the Muslim religion was changed the condition of women in the East would become much worse.  She would say, "Will a day come when new laws and revelations will be revealed, and shall I be one of the first to follow those teachings and give my life for my sisters?"
Her longing for the coming of the great Teacher and the new era became so strong that at last she besought her uncle, her father and her husband for permission to make a pilgrimage to Karbilá.  She knew that there she would be able to meet Siyyid Kázim.  Through the efforts of her younger uncle this permission was at last granted and she set out upon her wonderful journey, accompanied by this uncle.  What were her sorrow and disappointment to hear, three days before her arrival in Karbilá, the news of the death of Siyyid Kázim!  However, she soon remembered that the Siyyid had left glad tidings of the One to come, and who would come quickly, and her heart was again filled with happiness.  She journeyed on to Karbilá and there visited the family of the Siyyid, who gave her access to many of the Siyyid's unpublished writings, some of which were not even finished.  As she read she exclaimed, "Behold, how much the Shaykh and the Siyyid have left us.  They have left us a sea of writings."
There was no one to take the place of Siyyid Kázim and teach his students.  So Qurratu'l-'Ayn came forward and announced that she would take this place, would teach his followers just what the Siyyid had taught and impart to them his knowledge.
This caused much discussion among the Siyyid's followers.  Then thirty-two of the students said, "We will go and hear her once or twice.  If we are satisfied we will advise the others to come, and she will teach them."
It was extremely dangerous and difficult for Qurratu'l-'Ayn to teach men and for them to come to hear her for in those clays-and even at the present time in many places-women were kept veiled and in utmost seclusion.  But Qurratu'l-'Ayn overcame all difficulties, had a curtain arranged in the room, and behind this sat and taught those thirty-two students who came to hear her.  They soon recognized her as the one who could best teach them and saw that she was greater than all the divines in Karbilá.  For more than a year she taught these students, and all the time she wept and prayed that when the Promised One came she might recognize him.  And she urged the people to watch for him and obey Him who was shortly to come into the world.
When Mullá Husayn-i-Bushrúyihí visited the Báb, and became convinced that he was the Promised One, he told the news to Mullá 'Alíy-i-Bastámí, who likewise became a follower of the Báb, the second disciple.  Mullá 'Alíy-i-Bastámí then went to Karbilá, and there announced the great tidings that the New Light had arisen.  When Qurratu'l-'Ayn heard this news she summoned him to her presence and asked, "What proofs have you, and where is he?"  Mullá 'Alí gave her some of the writings and prayers of the Báb.  She took them, and straightway became a believer.  The following day when her pupils came for their lesson she announced the glad tidings that the long-expected time was at hand, saying, "All the promises given by the Shaykh and the Siyyid have come to pass.  The Promised One is on earth today!"
And a little child shall lead them
An incident from the early life of the Báb
We now wish to know if Qurratu'l-'Ayn had seen or met or had had any direct communication with the Báb previous to his public appearance and, if not, how she became acquainted with him.
She had heard that there was a young man in Shíráz, twenty-five years of age,
page 271
who from childhood had lived a perfect life and shown wonderful signs of wisdom and inspiration.  But she had never seen him or had access to his writings, and she did not know that the one of whom Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kázim spoke was this same youth.  All that she knew concerning the Báb had been told her by Hájí Siyyid Javád, one of the greatest mullás30 (divines) in Karbilá.
When Hájí Siyyid Javád went to Shíráz the Báb, at that time called Siyyid 'Ali Muhammad, was between seven and eight years of age.  Hájí Siyyid Javád states:
One night I was invited to the house of the uncle of this little boy, and I perceived some beautiful traits in the little child's character which aroused my interest.  This uncle, Hájí Siyyid 'Alí, had charge of the little child, as his father had died.  I spent the night in the house of Hájí Siyyid 'Alí and, in the early morning I heard a tiny, sweet little voice in the next room, which I found to be a prayer room.  It was a little child's voice in prayer-such prayers, such a voice, such devotion that I became absolutely enraptured and I, who was a great divine and was known to be very learned became quite humble upon hearing those beautiful words, so that I wanted to open the door and go out and see who that little child was.  I waited patiently until dawn, when Hájí Siyyid 'Alí came and met me.  And then that little child came, and I saw that he was the little child between seven and eight years of age-and he it was who had been chanting in the prayer room.  As soon as I gazed upon the child I saw such illumination, and on his face an expression so beautiful, that I felt I could not find throughout the whole human race one like him.  Before I could ask Hájí Siyyid 'Alí who he was, Hájí Siyyid 'Alí said, "This is my sister's child."
When we were having breakfast I asked a few simple questions of the little boy, and he answered me in a deep and grave way, such as one would expect from a very learned person.  The child then said, "I am going to school," and left.
I asked where that child went to school and the uncle answered, "He goes to Shaykh 'Abid to school."
I was so much drawn to the child that I could not stay where I was but got up and followed him to the house of Shaykh 'Abid.
Shaykh 'Abid, who was a teacher for the young, was surprised to see me, so great a scholar, so well-known and so famous that the Governor came out and welcomed me into the town, coming to his house unheralded.  I at once understood the wonderment in the face of the Shaykh and said to him:
"I have not come to see you.  I followed this little child," pointing to him.  Then I asked the Shaykh:
"What do you think of this boy?"
As soon as I said this the Shaykh showed great emotion, saying:
"What are you asking me?  This child seems to me to be ready to proclaim, to give out a message to the world.  What can I say about this child!"
He said, further:  "You see that this child comes to my school as a pupil, but in reality he is my teacher and I am his pupil.  During class time he says so many wonderful things and goes into so many deep and important questions that I have never heard anything like it in all my life.  When the children go out to play one sees him sitting there, reading most important writings.  If the children come and insist that he go and play with them he goes and engages them in a way which they do not understand; then he slips away and returns to his work."
The admiration of this Shaykh for the child so increased my own admiration and wonder that I returned to the house of Hájí Siyyid 'Alí and told him what Shaykh 'Abid had said to me.  The uncle answered: "I hear so much about this boy.  Yet, if I told anything people would
page 272
only say, 'he likes to speak well of his nephew.'
Hájí Siyyid Javád urged the uncle to tell him more about the little boy.  So at last the uncle consented and told him of a wonderful dream which the child had had, when five years old.  He dreamed that a pair of scales hung down from heaven.  In one side of the scales was one of the prophets; in the other side, which was empty, this little child was placed by an invisible hand.  Then this side weighed down the other, and the prophet seemed to be going up and the little boy coming down.
"Then, again," the uncle said, "we went one day to a public bath.  The child slept when there.  Suddenly he awoke and said, 'I dreamed that the roof of the bath next door fell down and killed seven ladies.'  We were surprised, but when we came out of the bath we discovered that this had actually happened."
If we were to recount in detail the proofs of the truth of the Báb it would take a long time.  Suffice it to say that after the Báb proclaimed his mission this uncle and this teacher believed in him, and the uncle was, finally, martyred in his footsteps.
This, indeed, is proof!
All these wonderful incidents about the Báb were related to Qurratu'l-'Ayn by Hájí Siyyid Javád, and thus she came to know him.
When eighteen years old the Báb made a pilgrimage to Karbilá, where he met Hájí Siyyid Kázim of Rasht who also recognized signs of the greatness and illumination in this youth.  These things and what she had read in the books of old made Qurratu'l-'Ayn confident that the light was to come from Shíráz.  Therefore when she heard that the youth, Siyyid 'Alí Muhammad, in Shíráz, had proclaimed his mission she instantly believed in him, and when she read some of his writings these confirmed still more deeply her belief.
When she heard this news and became a follower of the Báb her whole attitude, condition and point of view were completely changed.  She now spoke with such power and insight that those who had seen and heard her before were astonished, and exclaimed, "This is not the woman we knew before!"  She was so aflame that at any gathering of men or women where she spoke she won the entire attention and the very heart and soul of the audience.31


XIV:9, December 1923
page 272
What is new in the Bahá'í teachings?
Some of the new teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, specialized for the needs of this radiant century, are the independent investigation of truth, the oneness of mankind, universal peace, a universal court of arbitral justice, equality of men and women, universal education, the unity of science and religion, the underlying oneness of all existing faiths, that work done in the spirit of service is worship, etc.32  'Abdu'l-Bahá outlines some of these teachings in the brilliant Tablet33 quoted on the inside cover of this magazine, when he likens these principles to the rays of the sun.  "The spreading of these rays," he says, "will deliver the world of humanity from the darkness of ignorance and strangeness and lead it to the centre of all these rays."  That centre is the Sun of Reality from which they have all proceeded.  That Sun of Truth has been reflected in dazzling, penetrating power in the mirror of the heart and mind of the great Manifestation of our age, Bahá'u'lláh.  The divine Manifestation in every age is the centre of
page 273
the power which can put the ideals of the age into practice.  He transmits the Holy Spirit which creates men anew so that they can live and spread God's teachings.  Whenever he appears on earth he is always the gloriously new element in the solution of the world's problems.  And strangely enough, the thinkers of the age often do not reckon with this method by which God solves their problems.  "The greatest divine bounty," says 'Abdu'l-Bahá, "is the appearance of the Manifestation of God.  How can we ever limit and circumscribe this bestowal!  In reality it is the greatest of spiritual gifts."  "Although the stars are scintillating and brilliant, the sun is superior to them in luminous effulgence.  Similarly, these holy, divine Manifestations are and must always be distinguished above all other beings in every attribute of glory and perfection in order that it may be proven that the Manifestation is the true Teacher and real Trainer; that He is the Sun of Truth, ...  Otherwise, it is not possible for us to train one human individual and then after training him, believe in him and accept him as the holy Manifestation of Divinity.  The real Manifestation of God must be endowed with divine knowledge and not dependent upon learning acquired in schools.  He must be the Educator, not the educated; ..."34
"A young boy educated in Oxford will not become the universal educator of mankind.  One who is in need of the knowledge of the professors of a university will not become the Manifestation of God.  Christ was not taught by any man, yet he was a universal educator.  Bahá'u'lláh did not study, but his knowledge was immeasurable.  He became the instructor of the world of humanity.  Even his enemies testify to this fact."35
"In a word, the holy, divine Manifestation of God must be distinguished above all others of mankind in every aspect and qualification in order that He may be able to train effectively the human body politic, eliminate the darkness enshrouding the human world, uplift humanity from a lower to a higher kingdom, be able through the penetrative power of His Word to promote and spread broadcast the beneficent message of universal peace among men, bring about the unification of mankind in religious belief through a manifest divine power, harmonize all sects and denominations and convert all native lands and nationalities into one native land and fatherland."36
"The virtues and perfections of the world of humanity are infinite, but degrees exist.  The outward form may change, but the inherent qualities persist.  The lower degree cannot attain to the higher degree.  For example, however much the mineral may advance its progress is limited to the mineral world.  It is possible for the black carbon to become the brilliant diamond, but it cannot attain to the vegetable kingdom nor obtain the virtue of growth.  Likewise, however much the tree may advance it can never reach to the degree of the animal nor is it able to acquire the power of hearing and sight.  Its phases of progress are circumscribed, within the circle of the vegetable kingdom.  Where formerly it was fruitless, it has now become fruitful.  Or, where formerly it produced small and bitter fruit it now yields large and perfect fruit.
"Consequently, however much the creatures may make progress they will not be able to attain to the station of the Holy Manifestations.  Although Peter and Paul made infinite progress, yet they did not reach to the station of His Holiness Christ.  He was the essence of essences, and they belonged to the world of change and mutation."37
"Yea, all are from God-but one man is so exalted that others bow down before him and he is adored by them, like Christ, and Moses who called people to the oneness of divinity and who became the cause of the education of a
page 274
nation-while another is so degraded that he adores clay, and worships insects and serpents.  Are these two one and the same?  No, certainly not!  Nay, divine Manifestations are a separate creation.
"All are equal in birth, but look how much they differ in intelligence.  One is the wisest of the wisest and a founder of the laws of happiness and prosperity; while the other is the most ignorant of the ignorant, and a destroyer of the edifice of peace and honour.
"This shows that Prophets have a station of their own.  Many crossed the desert sands of Sinai but it was Moses who heard the voice of God, because divine Manifestations have a spiritual power peculiar to themselves.  Mighty nations swayed the world at the time of the appearance of divine Manifestations, but they were all degraded and obliterated.  But behold! what a banner did Christ, a single person, having no helper or assistant, unfurl!
"All are from God, but all have different stations.  Both man and animals are from God-but what a difference is there between them !"38
Question:  "Did Jesus first realize his mission when the Spirit descended upon him in the form of a dove?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "The Holy Spirit was always with Christ."
Question:  "Did he know of it?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "It was hidden from others, but manifest to him.  The story about the dove is simply a metaphor.  No dove came down.  Amongst the people, John the Baptist felt that the Holy Spirit was in Christ.  The Holy Spirit was always with Christ.  He knew about his mission from early childhood."
Question:  "Did the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá also know of their mission from early childhood?"
'Abdu'l-Bahá:  "Yes."
Question:  "In a book I read that at the age of twenty-four the Báb realized his mission."
'Abdu'l-Bahá :  "From childhood it was apparent to him, like the sun.  The people felt his greatness although they did not know about his future."39
__________
Thus, whenever "the ever widening circle of man's knowledge meets the spiritual world the Manifestation of God is sent to mirror forth His splendour."  The enumeration of the universal principles gives only a few of the rays of the world-illuminating sun.40  No one can know all the revelation until he has fully known and reflected in his life and deeds the centre and source of it all, God's new Manifestation.
"The source of all learning is the knowledge of God, exalted is His Glory! and this cannot be attained save through the knowledge of His Divine Manifestations."


XIV:10, January 1924
page 291
The life of Bahá'u'lláh
Jináb-i-Fádil
Part I
The province of Mázindarán, in northern Persia, has played a most distinguished part in the history of that country.  Reaching to the Caspian Sea, it is covered, in its northern portion, by a great forest of primeval trees where many nightingales sing their sweetest melodies, and thousands of varieties of fragrant flowers bloom in profusion.  In the south are high mountains, upon whose peaks the snow never melts.  This mountainous district, now the summer resort of the citizens of Tihrán, was in ancient times a place of retirement for the "Herbúd", the mystics and holy people.  Here they went for meditation and prayer.
There are many legends regarding the province.  It was said that here there would grow a celestial tree, with branches reaching to heaven.  The fruit of this tree would be for the life of the nations.  Many people travelled to this region hoping to find the wonderful tree.  Another legend was that the king of war and hatred had been imprisoned in one of these high mountains.  These stories were, of course, parables, describing in symbolic language the coming of the Universal Manifestation of God, whose teachings would encompass the earth and bring peace to all mankind.
In Núr, one of the districts of Mázindarán, dwelt the ancestors of Bahá'u'lláh.  A manuscript has been found, giving his genealogy which goes back more than 1,300 years, to the kings of ancient Persia.  These ancestors were people of illumined mind, of great wealth and distinction.  So pre-eminent were they among the people that they were regarded as a superior order of beings.  They possessed immense estates and many cattle, and built for themselves a great palace on the side of the mountain where the magnificent view took in valley and river.  In this palace they entertained in princely fashion their summer guests.
Bahá'u'lláh's father was Prime Minister to the Sháh.  He was looked upon by his contemporaries as a genius; his beautiful handwriting is to this day used as a model in calligraphy and the samples of it which still remain are highly prized by connoisseurs.  He also had bitter enemies, due to his fearless speaking of the truth, and his high position.  During the winter he lived in his palace in Tihrán.  But in the summer he retired to his country estate at Núr.
In 1817, in the palace in Tihrán, Bahá'u'lláh was born.  Although there were other children in the family, the parents had a unique love for this little boy, feeling even in his infancy the radiance of his remarkable power.  Over the entrance to his house Bahá'u'lláh's father inscribed a verse which shows an intuition of his son's future.  This inscription may still be read
page 292
"When thou enterest the sacred abode of the Beloved
"Say, 'I am at Thy command'.
"This is the home of Love.  Enter with reverence.
"This is holy ground.  Remove thy shoes when thou enterest here."
Bahá'u'lláh, when a child, had a dream in which he saw himself in a vast desert and around his head was flying every species of bird.  Passing over the desert he came to the ocean.  He swam in the ocean and all the fishes came to him and swam around his head.  He related this dream to his father who told it to a celebrated Interpreter of dreams.  This Interpreter said that the birds and fishes meant the thinkers of the world and that this boy would after a while become so great that all the thoughtful ones of the earth would follow him.
The perfection of character and the radiant spirit of the little child drew to him not only his father and mother, but prominent persons began to prophesy concerning his future.  He was so beloved by the people that his father's enemies, even, withheld their attacks, because of this little boy.
When he reached maturity it was supposed that he would, because of his father's high position, enter the government service.  But Bahá'u'lláh's purposes were of a different nature.
A very prominent theologian of Persia, a distant relative of Bahá'u'lláh, had a dream.  He found himself in a deep valley, beside a beautiful palace.  He wished to enter the palace but was told by the people that he must not do so for "The Promised One was within in conference, alone, with Bahá'u'lláh."
The theologian related this dream to many people, and all wondered concerning the spiritual station of Bahá'u'lláh.  The theologian said, "Perhaps he has so high a station because he is my relative."
Some thoughtful people replied, "But you, yourself, did not have permission to enter."
This theologian had about a thousand students who met with him in class in order to discuss difficult problems of theology.  One day, when their discussion was at its height, Bahá'u'lláh entered the room.  After listening for a while he began to speak, and for nearly an hour they listened, wonder-struck, to the torrent of explanation which poured from his lips.  The students were astounded, and the teacher marvelled, saying, "We have all studied the books-but here is one who without having studied imparts to us something greater than we have ever heard."
Bahá'u'lláh was by this time regarded by many as a superman, and everyone in the province felt that they must follow his counsel.  Then, in 1838, his father died, leaving a vast estate of lands and cattle.  Even before his father's death Bahá'u'lláh gave large sums of money to aid the poor.
When Bahá'u'lláh was twenty-seven years old, and living in his home in Tihrán, the Báb declared himself.  The people came to Bahá'u'lláh regarding the matter, and he told them, "What the Báb says is true."  He also advised his family to study the Báb's writings.
We have no evidence that the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh ever met, yet we know that their spiritual communication was continual.  There is a story, which is probably true, that when the Báb was under guard, on the outskirts of Tihrán, Bahá'u'lláh visited him, and the people observed how, contrary to his usual custom, the Báb paid extraordinary honour to Bahá'u'lláh, thus showing his recognition of his great spiritual station.
In the early morning of the Cause, when Bahá'u'lláh's own station was as yet unknown, he powerfully assisted the movement, with utmost effort and sacrifice, comforting the persecuted followers of the Báb and giving large sums of money to assist the spreading of the new teachings.  With irresistible logic and perfect wisdom he taught the new principles.  He had never in his life been to school, yet he wrote with a style of
page 293
transcendent beauty, and spoke as one inspired.  To the listening people his words seemed like the waves of a vast tumultuous ocean.
The wonderful abilities of Bahá'u'lláh, however, aroused the opposition of bitter enemies who made every effort to halt the spread of the movement.  In 1847 he was imprisoned for a number of days because of his efforts in behalf of some prominent followers of the Báb who had been arrested.  Shortly after his release a great conference of the believers of the Báb was held at Badasht.  There, many distinguished disciples came together to discuss ways and means for spreading the Cause.  During this time they lived in tents which they pitched on the plain outside the town.  Bahá'u'lláh attended this conference and through his great wisdom unity of thought was achieved among all the different minds.  It was into the midst of this imposing conference that Qurratu'l-'Ayn appeared with face unveiled, and declared that a New Day had dawned, the day of the emancipation of women, of the resurrection of souls, when men and women would rise from the graves of ignorance and limited beliefs and would see the Sun of God's Bounty which had appeared from the invisible horizon.  Previous to this conference she had written to the Báb that she realized how he, in his wisdom, was giving his new teachings, little by little, according to the capacity of the people, but would he give her permission to teach still more; and if she was rejected she would gladly sacrifice herself to spread God's new Light.
During the great siege of Mázindarán, which occurred after the conference at Badasht, Bahá'u'lláh, taking with him eleven believers, went to the authorities and pled for the besieged.  But in answer, he with his eleven companions was arrested, and a great mob gathered from the surrounding district and armed with all manner of weapons tried to kill them.  For safe keeping the guards at last hid them in a mosque and the Governor himself interfered to save Bahá'u'lláh and his companions.  Some Muslim mullás who had been confounded by Bahá'u'lláh in a discussion of scientific subjects now came forward and incited the people to attack the mosque and inflict injury upon Bahá'u'lláh.  The mob became so violent that the guards found it impossible to check them so they made a hole in the wall and through it slipped Bahá'u'lláh and his companions out of the mosque and to safe hiding in a well protected house unknown to the people.  Later he and the others were set free and they returned to Tihrán.
After the martyrdom of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh travelled to Baghdád and Karbilá where he inspired many, many people through his example and his great illumination.  After a year's absence he returned to Tihrán where a veritable reign of terror had started against the Báb's followers.  The Prime Minister sent a request to him, at his summer residence just outside Tihrán, to depart quickly and save himself.  But Bahá'u'lláh refused to do this and remained where he was.  Soon, a mob went to his palace, brought him out and compelled him, with hands manacled and bare feet to run for miles, amidst the jeers of the people.  He was put in an underground dungeon with a number of believers, his neck, feet and hands in heavy chains and these chains fastened to the floor.  Here he was kept for four months.  Each day a believer was taken out to be killed by the people in the public square.  But the presence of Bahá'u'lláh was so glorious that those steadfast souls crowded with him in the dungeon were supremely happy and joyous.  He would chant, "God is our Sustainer", "Sufficient unto us is God".  And the rayless cell would be transformed into the light of heaven.  In their renunciation and spiritual joy they sang and danced even under the swords of their executioners.
Unable to find any pretext for executing Bahá'u'lláh and because he was of the nobility, the Persian government decided at last to exile him and in this way extinguish the new movement.  He was
page 294
ordered to leave Tihrán immediately, for Baghdád.  He was not allowed time to obtain money or to secure even necessary clothing for himself and his family, but all were mounted on horses and started upon the journey.  It was mid-winter and heavy snow storms and bitter cold were the companions of the band of exiles as, surrounded by guards, they hurried along over the perilous mountain roads.  After the most tragic sufferings they arrived in Baghdád, in 1853.
From Baghdád the light of Truth shone forth brighter than ever and Bahá'u'lláh taught his universal principles.  The "lesser resurrection" was ended and the "universal resurrection" appeared.41  There were many believers of the Báb who kept the faith but, because of the terrible persecutions, were in hiding.  These, many of them, when they heard that Bahá'u'lláh was living in Mesopotamia, in comparative freedom, started out for Baghdád and joined him there.
Humanity is ever prone to oppose its spiritual leaders.  And now, many followers of the Báb who had arisen with great courage to accept his teachings, which were far in advance of those preached by the Persian religious leaders of that time, were unable to understand the wonderful and progressive teachings of Bahá'u'lláh.  They felt that he was abrogating the precepts of the Báb.  Therefore much discussion arose.  Another cause of disturbance at that time was the appearance of a malady ever present in the world-love of leadership.  This crept in among these early disciples causing many of the Báb's followers to believe themselves important.  Bahá'u'lláh had not yet declared himself the Manifestation and they had no excuse for attacking him; yet they realized that one had come among them whose power their love of leadership might find a serious obstacle.  On the other hand there were many who possessed true insight; these, as soon as they heard Bahá'u'lláh speak recognized him as their new leader and acknowledged him.  Finally, after being in Baghdád for about a year, Bahá'u'lláh decided to withdraw for a while that the believers might decide whom they wished to follow.  So, quietly one night he slipped away and not even his family knew where he had gone nor the hour of his departure.  In the morning, when his absence was discovered, a wide search was made, in every direction, and to every place where he was wont to go.  But no trace nor sign of him could anywhere be found.
For two long years no word came from Bahá'u'lláh, and those followers of the Báb who were sincere and faithful came fully to realize what a great and glorious light had been withdrawn.  They were confused and at loss; they were like sheep without a shepherd, like lamps whose light had been extinguished.  They now saw clearly that only Bahá'u'lláh was their bulwark and sustainer, their source of light and wisdom.
When he left his home in Baghdád, Bahá'u'lláh journeyed to Kurdistán and into the mountain wildernesses of that country, to a place called Sulaymáníyyih.  Here he lived, in a cave, dressed in the garb of a religious hermit.  Those wild mountains were full of highwaymen and desperadoes and he who travelled in that region took his life in his hands.  But as these people came to know Bahá'u'lláh a great love and respect for him filled their hearts.  They did not know who he was, only, they said, that he was the embodiment of divine attributes.
Bahá'u'lláh had a most melodious voice, and in the night, in his cave in the mountains, he would chant in Persian the most exquisite poems and prayers.  Then the people near his cave would awake, and rise, and congregate at the mouth of the cave to listen to the wonderful singing.  Later, these prayers were collected and printed in a volume in remembrance of those sacred hours.  This volume is now in the possession of the believers.
One day, in the hills of Sulaymáníyyih, Bahá'u'lláh came upon a little boy, weep-
page 295
ing bitterly.  Tenderly he picked up the child and, holding him in his arms, inquired as to his trouble.  The little boy replied that his teacher had written a line on his slate and told him to copy it exactly.  When he could not do this as well as the other pupils the teacher had beaten him.  "Therefore," said the child, "I am unhappy."  Bahá'u'lláh lovingly consoled him and said that he would teach him to write.  He took the slate from the boy's hand and wrote upon it, in most beautiful handwriting, a thought compelling epigram, then told the child to carry this to his teacher.  The teacher upon reading the profound epigram, written in such beautiful handwriting was much surprised and inquired where the one who so wrote could be found.  Thus the learned men of that region came to know of Bahá'u'lláh's presence among them.
Soon the fame of his knowledge and wisdom spread throughout Kurdistán and the thoughtful ones, regarding him as a saint, came to him with their problems in spiritual and mystical subjects.  Finally the news that a very holy man was living in the mountains in Kurdistán reached the ears of Bahá'u'lláh's family, who immediately said that this could be none other than Bahá'u'lláh and they must set out to find him.
There was a physician, a member of the Persian Consulate, who frequently visited the family of Bahá'u'lláh and felt much sympathy for them because of their great sorrow at his absence.  One day this physician came with a story of a merchant who had travelled to Hamadán to sell some bales of goods.  On the homeward journey he was attacked by a band of Bedouin robbers who, unable to find his money, cut his throat, carried him back into the mountains, there threw him down and, covering his body with stones left him.  A shepherd coming that way a little later, saw drops of blood on the ground and following their trail found the poor merchant, whose heart was still feebly beating.  A physician was quickly brought.  The merchant was unable to speak, but before he died he wrote upon a bit of paper that there was money secreted in his clothing, which he was carrying to "a renowned saint who lived in the mountains", and he begged that the money be taken to this saint, to be devoted to his cause.
These stories convinced the believers in Baghdád that it was Bahá'u'lláh who was living in the cave in the mountains of Kurdistán.  One who was very faithful, said, "I will go and find Bahá'u'lláh and will beg him to return.  If he does not wish to do so, I will remain with him."  His companions replied that the journey was most dangerous for the country was full of robbers.  But he said, "I will go."
After encountering many difficulties he finally reached the cave.  He proffered to Bahá'u'lláh many letters supplicating and entreating him to return to Baghdád.  At last Bahá'u'lláh consented and started forth with this companion.
His return to Baghdád brought a wonderful impetus to the Cause.  His very appearance, so majestic and compelling drew to him people from all walks of life, for one need but look into his face to see that he was not as others.  Soon a constant stream of visitors was pouring into his house; the rough Kurds from the mountains, in sheepskin clothing, coming in search of their Master who had so recently been among them; leaders of thought, Jewish, Muslim, Christian, seeking an audience; the various consuls and other dignitaries stationed at Baghdád, who stood silent in his presence, waiting for his words of wisdom.  There were also numbers of pilgrims who came to visit the holy shrines established in the cities near Baghdád.  Many of these earnest men came to see Bahá'u'lláh to investigate his teachings:  returning to their homes they carried the new message.
With Bahá'u'lláh present among them a new spirit shone from the hearts of the believers.  He taught them that the way to spread the Cause was for each believer to become a divine lamp of guidance among all the people.  The more
page 296
they were harmed by the enemies of the Cause, he told them, the more must they show forth love and kindness.  Then other believers, from all parts of the country, left their homes and relatives and came to Baghdád to be with Bahá'u'lláh, who trained them in these noble characteristics, changing iron into gold, until many were drawn to the movement through the spiritual lives of these early followers.
Then the enemies of the Cause again bestirred themselves.  The story is told of a religious leader who was greatly drawn to Bahá'u'lláh.  Learning that the enemies were plotting against him he decided to warn Bahá'u'lláh.  So he went early one morning to his home, with this intention.  He found Bahá'u'lláh beside the River Dajli, walking up and down the beautiful bank which he loved, pouring forth his revelation.  The visitor, greatly surprised that Bahá'u'lláh was so undisturbed by his impending danger, waited until he returned to his house, and then told him of his danger.  Bahá'u'lláh reassured him, saying, "God is working through invisible means."
In spite of all the persecutions the believers did not become downcast or discouraged.  They had supreme confidence in Bahá'u'lláh.  They were so aglow with the spirit of sacrifice and devotion to the Cause of God that if their material possessions were taken away from them it made no difference to them, for they were living in the paradise of nearness to Bahá'u'lláh.
During these days in Baghdád many books and Tablets were revealed through the pen of Bahá'u'lláh.  The Kitáb-i-Íqán was written during this period, also the Hidden Words, Seven Valleys, Jewels of Mysteries in the Highest Journey, a great Tablet called the Tablet of Jacob, and many other luminous epistles.  Bahá'u'lláh wrote and spoke in brilliant epigrams so inspiring to mind and spirit that they were repeated everywhere.  Philosophers and poets longed to meet him, and his teachings spread far and wide throughout the Eastern countries.  Therefore Baghdád during these years was a great centre of divine light.


XIV:11, February 1924
page 325
The life of Bahá'u'lláh
Jináb-i-Fádil
Part II
The enemies of Bahá'u'lláh, wishing to exile him from Baghdád, met in consultation.  They asked a prominent divine, a very good and sincere man, with many followers, to meet with them.  This divine was not a follower of Bahá'u'lláh, but when he heard the plan of the enemies he refused to have anything to do with it, saying that they had never investigated the matter, and therefore could not know the truth; then he left the meeting.  The others finally decided to send one of their number to talk with Bahá'u'lláh.  This man, also, was good and sincere and when he met Bahá'u'lláh he beheld in wonder the radiance of his spirit.  He asked what he should say to those who had sent him.  Bahá'u'lláh replied, "You must tell them all that you have seen and felt."  The emissary said, "They do not doubt your greatness and knowledge.  What they really want is a miracle."  Bahá'u'lláh answered, "You have read in all the sacred books that miracles do not appear through the wish of the people, but by the will of God.  If God followed the will of the people the order of the world would be destroyed, for the people are many and each one holds in his mind a wish different from the others.  However, you may tell your friends that they may consult together and choose one miracle; if I perform this miracle, then they must all believe."
The emissary, rejoicing, returned to his colleagues.  While they were considering Bahá'u'lláh's message one said, "If Bahá'u'lláh, through his unseen power should perform this miracle, then would we accept him, and become believers?"  To this question they answered, No.  So the matter of the miracle was dropped.
At last the enemies of the Cause secured from the government authorities an order banishing Bahá'u'lláh from Baghdád.  It first read that he should go, alone.  But later this was changed, permitting his family and a few followers to accompany him.  The band of exiles left Baghdád and paused, first, in a beautiful garden outside the city.  Here they sojourned for twelve days.  A tent was pitched for Bahá'u'lláh, and around it the tents for the others.  These days in the garden are called "The days of Ridván" and they are of supreme importance, for it was then that Bahá'u'lláh declared, to a few followers, his great mission and began to build the palace of peace and unity for the world.  He revealed many wonderful verses which sing the melodies of the New Day of God.
When the twelve days were over, the party, mounted on horses and donkeys and guarded by Turkish soldiers, set out again.  The believers who could not accompany them were utterly broken
page 326
hearted.  It was as though Bahá'u'lláh was a king starting upon a glorious journey.  Outwardly, an exile-but in his spirit a great light was shining.
The desert of Asia Minor over which they had to travel in order to reach Constantinople is full of jagged mountains-a most inhospitable land whose vast reaches of wilderness are the hiding place of robbers and wild animals.  Through the burning heat of this desert wilderness, in the hottest season of the year, Bahá'u'lláh and his party travelled for months.  Only once along the way did they pause.  The reason for this delay, a rest for the exiles of nine days, was this:  they came upon a merchant who had been attacked by a band of robbers and his load of goods stolen.  He appealed to the Turkish soldiers accompanying Bahá'u'lláh to help him; but they refused.  Then he approached Bahá'u'lláh and besought him to intercede in his behalf.  Bahá'u'lláh called the soldiers to him and told them to assist to their utmost this unfortunate man.  So the guards were obliged to leave the party of exiles and to scour the country until they found the robbers, rescued the stolen goods and returned them to the merchant:  When this was done Bahá'u'lláh was ready to continue the journey.
After four months of travel through the desert the party reached the seaport town of Sámsún, where they went on board a ship and sailed along the Black Sea to the Bosporus, finally arriving in Constantinople.  Here they were met by government officials and the whole party quartered in one small house.  Four months they stayed in Constantinople, and from this cosmopolitan centre, the highway between Asia and Europe, the fame of Bahá'u'lláh spread like wildfire.  Many prominent men visited him here, and left his presence marvelling at the wisdom of his answers to their questions.
Seeing the power of his influence and how the Cause was spreading, the enemies in their jealousy decided to drive him from Constantinople.  He was urged by several prominent men to write a letter to the Sultán of Turkey stating his case.  But Bahá'u'lláh declined to do this, saying that he preferred to leave his affairs in the hands of God.
The enemies growing more and more afraid of his influence secured an order for his exile from Constantinople to Adrianople, in the extreme corner of European Turkey and a nine days' journey by carriage from Constantinople.  Here Bahá'u'lláh and his party lived as exiles for five years, under the surveillance of the Turkish government.  In Adrianople he wrote two wonderful Tablets, called the Tablet of Command and the Tablet of The City of Unity.  In these Tablets he gives instructions for a united humanity and proclaims to the world his divine mission as the Manifestation of God and the Centre around which all the names revolve and the fulfilment of the prophecies of the Scriptures.  He also, at this time, wrote many other glorious epistles, each one a flame of light to inspire and illumine the believers.  He wrote two Tablets, one in Persian and the other in Arabic, and called them both "The Tablet of Ahmad".  In the Arabic Tablet of Ahmad Bahá'u'lláh says:  "Whosoever is sorrowful and disillusioned and disappointed let him read this Tablet; then joy and happiness will enter into his heart."
It was now very difficult for Bahá'u'lláh to communicate with his followers in other regions, due to the strict surveillance of the enemies.  However, several of the believers managed to travel back and forth, bringing letters to Bahá'u'lláh and taking back his Tablets of instruction and encouragement.  Inspired by his example and self-sacrifice the friends went forth to carry to the ends of the earth the message that the Promised One had come and the Day of Resurrection had dawned, the day of reconciliation and international unity.
After five years in Adrianople his influence had become so great and his fol-
page 327
lowers so numerous that the enemies of the Cause determined to banish him again, this time alone, and to some very remote place, sending his family and the other members of his party to a different city.  When this heart-breaking news was brought to them the little party was panic stricken.  They had forsaken every worldly possession and comfort in order to be near to Bahá'u'lláh and now they declared that they could not endure existence away from him.
Then officials stationed at Adrianople, and representing various European governments, came to Bahá'u'lláh and offered him their assistance, that he might go to one of the European countries and live in peace the remainder of his life, or that a protest might be made against his persecutors.  But Bahá'u'lláh replied, "No.  Reliance is in God, and not in any human power."
His family and the little band of devoted followers were finally allowed to remain with him, and all were exiled together to Gallipoli.  Here they were met by an order countermanding the last one and commanding that he be separated from his party.
Bahá'u'lláh now manifested his spiritual authority.  He wrote a mighty epistle, called the Tablet of Ra'ís.  Although this Tablet was written to the one who, according to earthly sovereignty had power of life and death over him, yet a person unacquainted with the facts would suppose it to be written by a King to his most submissive subject.  In this Tablet Bahá'u'lláh speaks with power divine and rejects the command of separation from his family and followers.  He also prophesies concerning the bloodshed which would occur in Adrianople.
The order commanding the separation of the party was rescinded and a steamship made ready to carry them all to Alexandria.  Arriving there (in 1868), after a five days' journey, they re-embarked in a ship bound for Haifa, Palestine.  Three more days at sea brought them to Haifa where, after one night's rest, they were put into small boats and taken to 'Akká, a distance of about nine miles,
The city of 'Akká is surrounded by high walls whose iron gates were closed at night.  The streets were never cleaned.  There was no water for drinking save that filtered from the sea.  These unsanitary conditions, added to a very bad climate, bred a disease from which many died.  In fact, there was a saying that if a bird flew over 'Akká it would die.  The barracks, where Bahá'u'lláh and his party were imprisoned, was the most unwholesome place in 'Akká.  The dungeon-like rooms were rayless and damp, without windows, and swarming with vermin.  The soldiers behind the iron gates who were given custody of the prisoners were the roughest of characters, and had government orders to shoot at sight any one of the prisoners who attempted to leave the prison.  For some time after they were put into this prison they were given neither bread nor water, and the men, women and children were in a most pitiable condition.  When they were finally given some bread it was such that they could hardly eat it.  And the water allowed them made them all ill, some of the party dying from drinking it.  The enemies of the Cause were sure that the exiles would all die within a few months, knowing that human beings cannot long survive such conditions.  And one may imagine what this meant for Bahá'u'lláh and his family, who were of the nobility of Persia and had lived in great luxury.  But their invincible faith and the confirmations of the Holy Spirit sustained them, and all through those dark and grievous months their hearts were filled with heavenly joy.
After some time the restrictions were somewhat abated and two of the friends were permitted to go out, once a day, to the bazaars to purchase supplies.  They went accompanied by soldiers who had orders to keep strict watch upon them and if they attempted to speak one word
page 328
other than those needed to make their purchases to shoot them instantly.
Before Bahá'u'lláh arrived in 'Akká a wonderful thing happened.  One of his followers decided to go there and open a shop.  He had been in 'Akká for some time, and had had no news of his Master's fate, for the place to which Bahá'u'lláh was exiled was kept secret by the Turkish government.  Then one day he encountered the two believers buying their supplies.  They recognized each other in silent joy and happiness.  Through this believer communication with the outside world was established.  The physician who attended Bahá'u'lláh and his party when they all became ill through drinking the terrible water of 'Akká soon loved them very much, and he asked to be allowed to serve them.  So, when he left the barracks he would carry with him Bahá'u'lláh's epistles and Tablets, to send them to his followers, and would receive their answers.
When the believers learned where Bahá'u'lláh was incarcerated many started out, on foot, across the mountains and the desert, in search of their Great Teacher.  After journeying many months they would arrive outside 'Akká.  As access to Bahá'u'lláh was impossible they would stand outside the city wall near the sea until Bahá'u'lláh came to the window of his prison room.  After looking at him for a few moments they would turn about, their hearts singing with joy that they had seen their Beloved and been recognized by him.
During this imprisonment in the barracks Bahá'u'lláh revealed many wonderful books and Tablets which brought to the far-away friends supreme happiness.  At the end of the second year of their imprisonment a tragic event occurred.  One of Bahá'u'lláh's sons, called the Purest Branch, a young man seventeen years of age, endowed with a character of superlative spiritual beauty, was one day walking on the roof of the prison.  He served Bahá'u'lláh as his secretary and wrote down, at his dictation, his Tablets.  As he walked up and down on the roof of the barracks chanting a beautiful prayer he made a misstep over the edge of the roof and fell to the floor below.  He was picked up so badly injured that his life quickly ebbed away.  Before he died Bahá'u'lláh asked him if
page 329
he had any request to make.  He replied, "My only supplication is that this suffering of mine and my death may be a sacrifice to the friends of God, through which the prison doors may be opened and a greater freedom of access may be given to Bahá'u'lláh."
When this request was made known to the officials their hearts were touched, and because of it and because, little by little, during those two years, they and the townspeople had begun to realize somewhat of the beauty of the lives of these exiles, their love and their unselfishness, the prison doors were opened and they were allowed to secure a small house in the town.  Bahá'u'lláh was not permitted to leave the house, but the living conditions were better than those in the barracks.  Seven long years he spent, within the four walls of that house, nor did he in all that time look upon a blade of grass or rushing water or hear the singing of the birds which he had loved in his native land.  During these years 'Abdu'l-Bahá was a link between Bahá'u'lláh and the outside world.  He went among the people, with the utmost kindness, telling them stories, imparting to them knowledge and wisdom.  The religious leaders and the government officials learned to love 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  So now and then he would take one of these prominent men to Bahá'u'lláh, whose mighty presence was so majestic, whose words were so luminous that many became believers and offered to render any service their positions permitted.
Finally, after nine years' close imprisonment, through the efforts of these influential men Bahá'u'lláh was granted permission to walk in the streets of 'Akká.  Later he was allowed to leave the city and have a beautiful garden, called the Garden of Ridván, about two and a half miles outside of 'Akká.  And finally he went to live in a house called the palace of Bahjí, also outside of 'Akká.  Here he lived until 1892, when he ascended into the spiritual world.
Bahá'u'lláh was sent by his enemies to 'Akká, Palestine, against his will, an exile and a prisoner.  But through this very act of the enemies in banishing him to the Holy Land many wonderful and divine prophecies, of the Jewish prophets and Muhammad were fulfilled; and many people, Christians, Jews and Muslims, came to see and to follow the new faith.
There is a prophecy in the Old Testament which says that in the Latter Day God will make the valley of Achor a door of hope to all nations.42  This prophecy could have no physical significance, for the small town of 'Akká, with its high walls and iron gate and its unfortunate inhabitants could never, of itself, become a door of hope for the people of all the earth.  Therefore the prophecy must be interpreted spiritually, and means that from this dark spot will arise a spiritual light which will shine into the hearts of men, everywhere.
'Akká is very damp and the place is infested with fleas.  There is in the Qur'án a strange verse, which says, "Blessed is the man who is bitten by the fleas of 'Akká."  Another verse states, "Happy is he who eats the onions of 'Akká", referring undoubtedly, to the unpleasant odours of the place.  Outside 'Akká there is a well of stagnant, tepid water to which one descends by means of several steps.  This well is called "'Aynu'l-Baghar" and Muhammad prophesied concerning it, saying how happy would be the man who tasted the water of "'Aynu'l-Baghar".  It is impossible that these prophecies should have a literal fulfilment; therefore it is clear that the greatness of 'Akká will be spiritual.
From 'Akká the spiritual teachings of Bahá'u'lláh spread through the world.  The enemies did their utmost to crush the light, but it became more and more brilliant.  The friends arose everywhere to teach, and distribute the Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh.  In many parts of Persia they were martyred, but this only united
page 330
the hearts of the friends more firmly.  The movement spread to India and grew apace in Turkey and Russia and certain parts of Europe.
In the wonderful Tablets and holy books which Bahá'u'lláh revealed in 'Akká one feels that the author is standing upon the highest mountain of the earth, looking down upon humanity with eyes of compassion and universal love, bidding all to climb the mountain and become characterized with the attributes of the sons of God.  With one mighty blow Bahá'u'lláh destroyed the separating walls of tradition and dogma and invited all religions and races to realize that they are brothers and sisters and so to live as to attain the pinnacle of prosperity and success.  In his writings we find the perfection of all divine religions, a new interpretation of the heavenly books which breaks the seals and establishes unity among the believers in all the world religions.  He ushers in the age of the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth, of divine justice, equality and peace among all the children of God.


XIV:10, January 1924
page 296
The federation of the world
A Tablet of Bahá'u'lláh
He is the Counsellor, the Trustworthy.
Consider the world as a human being.  This being was created perfect and healthy, but due to various causes became ill; and its illness was never removed because it was in the hands of unwise physicians.  If in any age one of its members was healed, by a wise physician, its other parts continued ill, with various afflictions.  And now it has been given into the hands of those who are fostered by the wine of self-conceit.  If of these people, a few try, somewhat, to heal it their purpose is to profit thereby, either through fame, or official position.  Such people as these have not been and will not be able to remove these illnesses, save to a slight degree.  And the great remedy, which is the cause of its health-that is, the unity of all the people of the earth into one cause and religion and form of worship-impossible save through one, wise, perfect, confirmed Physician who, from the Eternal World turns his face to this earth and comes to earth for the organization of the world and the uniting of its people-whenever such light has appeared from the Horizon of the Divine Will and such a Wise Physician become manifest from the Dayspring of Celestial Wisdom, these
page 297
various physicians have become like clouds to veil his radiance.
Therefore, the people of the earth still continue in their dissensions-and the sickness of the world has not passed away and has not been healed.  These physicians were not able to accomplish this great work; neither did they permit the Divine Physician, but became beclouding veils to conceal him.
Consider, in these days the Eternal Beauty and the Greatest Name has swept away these veils, and sacrificed himself for the illumination of the world and the unity and salvation of its people.  Yet all arose to injure him-until at last he was imprisoned in the prison which is the most desolate of cities, and they closed the doors of entrance and departure.  They see the Friend as the stranger and the Beloved as an enemy and regard the peacemaker as the mischief-maker.
O people of wealth and power!  Behold how you become a veil, and have withheld the world and its people from the effulgence of the light of the Sun of justice and infinite Bounties and how you see the greatest tranquillity as hardship, and the greatest gift as calamity!
At least listen to the kindly counsels of the Divine Beauty for the organization of the world and the tranquillity of its inhabitants.  Every year you are adding to your expenditures, putting this on the shoulders of the people; this is furthest removed from equity and justice, and comes only from the winds of selfishness which are blowing and moving.  To stop this is impossible save through a strong, unshakeable peace, which is the greatest cause of the firmness of the principles (which are) the foundation of the people and the nation.
Although the perfect peace and unity they did not receive, the world must be repaired through this (lesser) peace so that its sickness may diminish somewhat.  Peace among the rulers was and will be the cause of tranquillity to the inhabitants and people of the country.  Through this means they will not need armies and armaments, except in sufficient number to protect their cities and countries; and having established this (peace) the expenses will be less and the inhabitants will be tranquil and they themselves (the rulers) will be at rest.  If after this peace (is established) one king should rise against the others it will be necessary for the others, all together, to restrain him.
It is astonishing that up to the present time they have not attained thereto.  Although the pomp of kingship and the hugeness of armies are obstacles to some in accepting this peace-the cause of tranquillity for all-these were and will be pure superstitions, for the majesty of man and his honour are only through those things which are worthy of him, not through outer accessories.  The people of perception look at the commander as one commanded; count the rich, poor and the powerful, weak; see that their dominion, authority, their wealth their power are dependent upon the people.  Therefore, these things will not make the station of man higher, to the people of perception.
The essence of man is hidden in his individuality which must appear through the polish of education.  This is man's glory, and all else which depends upon outer things, is not a part of man, himself.
Therefore, they will not look at external smallness or largeness, dignity or honour; and they must attain to the most great peace.
The rulers are manifestations of divine power.  It is regrettable that those esteemed souls impose this burden.  If in reality they will put the reins of affairs in the hands of trustworthy, faithful and intelligent persons they will find themselves free and at rest.  How happy is that ruler who arises to assist God and proclaim His Cause and to illumine the world with the light of justice.  It is necessary that all the people of the earth shall love him.
page 298
This is that which proceedeth from the pen of the King of Eternity.  We ask God that He will graciously aid all the nations with that which will be for their benefit and make them to understand what is good for them in this world and the world to come.
He is Powerful in all things


XIV:10, January 1924
page 298
The oneness of the human world
Louis G. Gregory
The signs of God are numberless in the world today.  As light upon the horizon of hearts, as rays from the Sun of Reality, are the teachings of holiness and peace.  Among the great principles of unity, from its emphasis and recurrence in the Bahá'í teachings the most brilliant and powerful is that which declares the oneness of humanity.  This divine truth is power to the hand that is puny and weak.  To the heart frozen by convention it is genial warmth.  To the tongue that is mute it is the voice of the angels.  The mind cannot resist its logic and the soul is subdued by its spiritual power.  Happy therefore is he who perceives its significance.  Justice adorns his character.  His vision is strengthened and enlarged.  He perceives things that are real.  All nations are one.  All lands are one earth.  All races are the great human family.  All voices belong to the mighty chorus of praise.
Essential unity, sign of the divine creation, does not destroy essential differences in the world.  Distinctions due to appearance, habitat, grades and kingdoms, capacities and powers that vary, all have their bearing in the organization of the world.  Yet such differences should not remove that which is basic and fundamental.  The eternal bond of love is the universal connection.  Yes, wherever organization, itself an expression of love, exists, diversified talents must also be found.
The lowest forms of matter are called by the scientist, inorganic.  To him they are lifeless because destitute of organs.  But 'Abdu'l-Bahá assures us that even in the lowest forms of matter, such as the earth, there is life.  Hence we know that even here there is organization.  Science tells us that in the realm of matter there are beings so infinitesimal that a myriad of them united would escape the scrutiny of the eye.  Yet in each there is organization which to us attests the divine power.  In the highest, spiritual realm, the light of oneness is supreme.  Should we not expect to find the Kingdom of Heaven, as befits its lofty state, more perfectly organized than the kingdoms of earth?  The unity of mankind does not contemplate the crumbling of all organization, but rather the removal of all friction among all its elements and parts, thereby increasing its effectiveness and power.  The uniting power appears in all the kingdoms, but the higher the ascent the greater is its rule manifest.  The title of nobility in the divine worlds is service.
The world of man is free to accept or reject what divine wisdom reveals.  Evidences of life and hope on the one hand and of collapse and chaos on the other express man's acceptance or denial of the principle of God.  The calamities and heart-aches of which man complains are for him a driving force toward his Maker.  The breaking down of all plans of relief gradually eliminates all aid save the Greatest Name.  This power alone can free man from himself and those idols of hate, fear, error, and superstition which claim his homage.
It is obviously absurd for people to hate because of differences of weight and stature.  Is it less so because some are
page 299
French, others German; some white, others black; some Europeans, others Asians?  Rich in imagery, poetic and beautiful in expression are those teachings which unfold the harmony in varied perfection of all the grades and kingdoms of creation.  'Abdu'l-Bahá seemed never happier than when, with his divine eloquence, he unfolded the law of human solidarity, which he indicated must follow the analogy of the other kingdoms created by God.  He reminds us of the rubies and sapphires, diamonds and pearls, that compose a diadem; of the many waves of one sea; of the different coloured lambs that together skip and play; of the blue and white doves that find fellowship; of the many trees of one orchard; of the variegated flowers of one garden; of the harmonious notes of one orchestra; of the rainbow with its ethereal and varied splendour, sign of the Covenant of God with all his children.  Bahá'u'lláh speaks of mankind as the "leaves of one tree and the fruits of one branch."
These great Luminaries, who in their Oneness are the Tree and Branch of Divinity, have left no doubt as to their will for the unity of the world.  Man may ever find, in the rose garden of Abhá, that variety which gives joy to life harmonized by the eternal and divine Oneness which is life itself.  When the light of unity is unveiled in the inner consciousness, man may find new meanings in the endless forms of creation which yield their secrets for his training.  The flora of many regions; the changes of season wherein earth unfolds its treasures; valleys and mountains; rivers and shining lakes; the many shades in the turning of the autumn leaves; the sun, now shining with majestic splendour, anon43 tingeing the cumulous clouds with red; the moon, many in its phases, yet one in its changeless looking to the earth; the stars differing in size, yet each and all contributing to the brilliancy of the heavens; rain and sparkling dews; plains and plateaux; oases and fertile fields; deserts of ice and deserts of burning sand suggest a panorama of beauty that is endless with the signs of the Heavenly Artist, Who is One.  All the kingdoms, according to varying capacities, reflect and praise the True One.  But while the lower kingdoms show forth many charms, the perfections of the human realm are richer and more beautiful.  On an occasion of state, in the city of Washington, the head of the nation, through the aid of an electrical device which amplified the voice, addressed about one hundred thousand people.  In this vast throng, with faces turned expectantly in one direction, one could see far greater beauty in diversity than in all the lower kingdoms of creation.  For man, who contains in his being endless possibilities of growth, is nature's sum, plus the virtues of the higher realm.  The marvel of this great gathering was that each figure marked a distinct individuality and was the temple of a deathless entity, the human spirit.
Smaller in numbers, yet far weightier in significance, were the gatherings which surrounded 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the East and West, inspired by his words of wisdom and receiving life pulses from his healing sympathy.  These happy friends, in meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá, contacted with the world of oneness.  The joy of faces indicated that the hearts were shown their reality.  New visions of happiness came to all as sentiments and powers were directed toward world fellowship.  As the divine Educator called forth their virtues, many for the first time responded to the best within them.  The creative power of unity, which builds divine civilization, flowed to the hearts.  Alike and yet different, distinct yet harmonious, united yet free, many yet one, the friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá throughout the world, stand through the glory of sacrifice upon the plane of oneness, transformed by the power of the new day.
Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá have removed the veils of separation and es-
page 300
trangement from all races and nations.  All are urged to acquire culture and all are invited to the table of heavenly teachings.  The belief, born of superstition, that any race or nation is incapable of acquiring knowledge is forever dispelled.  The strong are saved from pride and the weak from aggression.  All are given the right to true strength through the Might of God.  "The beloved of God are those in whom the Word of God taketh effect."  For those who prize spiritual values this is enough.  Yet it may be interesting to note how the scientific lore of this age reflects the light of the Messengers of God:  Sir Arthur Keith, of great renown among anthropologists, declares that the terms high and low do not apply to races, but only to civilizations.  Jean Finot of the French school, proves the absurdity of race prejudice with the exactness of a demonstration in Euclid.  Prof. Munroe of Japan, in one of his admirable lectures, shows how the different civilizations have been successively developed by peoples of all colours, rejecting the theory that there is inherent inferiority on the part of any race, past or present.
It has been proved in many cases that children whose ancestors have been savages for many generations, if put in school and given an opportunity, can acquire the highest culture.  But still woeful is the loss, if divine ideals are lacking.  The great war illustrates what people trained by the best of human methods, may yet do to each other.  The first discovery of man is his own body and its needs.  The next is his relationship to his family.  Then little by little he becomes interested in the community, the nation and perhaps the race in its more limited sense.  It is pitiable for the world that for the most, development seems arrested here.  But now, for those who are willing, the divine bounty widens the horizons of unity to include the world.  This attainment is a priceless jewel for man.
A traveller in Persia tells of meeting in that country, where means of locomotion are so limited and common schools so meagre, many people of even lowly life as measured by worldly standards, who discuss and espouse ideals which would honour the sages and seers of earth.  These people have been trained by Bahá'u'lláh and his successors to think in terms of humanity and to work and pray for universal welfare.  They know and act upon those laws which must govern a united world.  Their lives are simple.  Their hearts are pure.  Their faces shine with divine joy.  Yet happier still are the mighty and strong whose human stations do not debar the light divine.  The education of Bahá'u'lláh successfully trains all degrees and ranks.  Its spirit penetrates all gatherings.  One can scarcely attend any gathering of progressive thinkers nowadays without hearing Bahá'í ideals expressed.
It is related that a European king, who was sending a body of his troops to a colony, thus addressed them:  "As you go among my subjects across the sea, there is one thought I wish to impress upon you.  It is that they are our brothers.  If we have any advantage over those people, it is not because of how we look, but because of what we know.  And when they know what we know, it is possible that they may do more with it than we have done.  So go among them and teach them.  And remember that if you insult them because of their colour, you insult me.  I know that you intend to do what is right.  But this thought cannot be too strongly impressed upon you."
It is clear that all races and nations have much to give to the collective consciousness which brings world civilization.  It may be given to some to do more than others, but no wise man will wish to impede the progress of any.  Those who are kind will wish to aid the advancement of all.  Because human horizons are limited and personal touches are perhaps even more so, men are seldom accurate judges of the capacities and powers of their fellow beings.  Men
page 301
usually allow themselves to be governed by impressions and appearances, while the insight of the Absolute judge penetrates the reality of man.  Many years ago one of the great teachers most impressively called our attention to the unerring way in which 'Abdu'l-Bahá looked upon the hearts.  The Prophets of God, without exception, have appraised humanity according to spiritual values and standards.  They have with one voice commanded unity and have set the example of favouring all people who advance toward God.  Such is the badge of distinction in the world of reality.
Down the ages, in all countries and climes, virtues appear which attest a divine power in man.  Even among the most primitive peoples this light appears.  Even among the so-called savages of the world one may sometimes find a fidelity, a hospitality, a responsiveness to love which put to shame by comparison many of the most advanced.  As the poet says:
"I believe that in all ages
Every human heart is human;
That in even savage bosoms,
There are yearnings, longings, strivings,
For the good they comprehend not."
There are flashes of reality in the ancient Sabaean religion, which in the time of Homer had lapsed into idol worship.  In the Iliad, Agamemnon, the king of men, addressing the wrathful Achilles, says:
"If thou hast great strength some god bestowed it upon thee."  Or, as Pope translates:  "Know vain man, thy valour is from God!"  Thankfulness to the True One augments the power of unity.
Man increases his wealth of divine blessings by sharing them with others.  Dispersion, avoidance, hatred, dissipate the forces of life upon every plane.  Ill will toward others prevents refreshing sleep, impairs digestion, dwarfs the mind, cankers the soul, disturbs the family, alienates friends, increases foes, and removes one far from God.  Hatred between races and nations is now so far-reaching and calamitous as to threaten the existence of all flesh.  Greatly to be pitied is he who hates.  Those who know would avoid it as they would a pestilent disease.  Its subjective harm may be far greater than any injury it may bring to others.  But it is certain that love removes hate, and mighty is the power that confirms human service under divine Guidance.
'Abdu'l-Bahá defines "the reality of humanity" as:
"That universal unity, which is the oneness of the kingdom of the human race, the basic harmony of the world, and the appearance of the bounty of the Almighty."
The principle accepted, one may view with gladness what it portends in the readjustment to a higher plane, of all human ties.  Another attitude perhaps, may be that of elation at sacrifices made, souls awakened, victories won by the sword of the spirit.  But the glory of the day is the task that remains.  The unification of souls, at home and abroad, is the aim of service to the Beauty of Abhá.  Stupendous and splendid is the effort, which God confirms, of forging a chain of love which links all humanity.  When this end is achieved paeans of joy will ascend from earth to heaven and the Supreme Paradise will acclaim the bliss of a united world.


XIV:10, January 1924
page 303
The only solution of world problems
One of the interesting signs of the times is the conversion of the well known suffrage worker of England, Miss Cristabel Pankhurst, to an evangelist of the "Second Coming".  In her first enthusiasm for woman's suffrage, she says, "I had lived in an atmosphere of illusion, thinking that once certain obstacles were removed, especially the disenfranchisement of women, it would be full steam ahead for the ideal and social international order."  But recent events have convinced her that neither the women nor the men, the workingmen nor the politicians are able to bring in the new international order.  "When I really faced the facts," she says, "I saw that the war was not a war to end war."44  "We men and women have not the goodness needed, nor the loving-kindness, nor the wisdom, nor the power, to regenerate the world ...  We (women) are wholly unable, just as the men are unable, even to form, much less to put into effect, the policy that will regenerate the world."  "It is the task, not of humanity, but of Divinity, infinite in wisdom, power and love."45
Then she discovered the Bible prophecies concerning Christ's return at the "end of the age", and that "the establishment of the Kingdom awaits his return."  "'Ah! that is the solution!'  My heart stirred to it.  My practical political eye saw that this Divine Programme is absolutely the only one that can solve the international, social, political and moral problems of the world."46  "A few years ago," she says, "there was excuse for the critical having doubts of Bible prophecies.  But recent events are fitting into the mould of prophecy so marvellously as to remove all grounds for doubt."  There are the wars and rumours of wars, at least the beginnings of the great Armageddon, the return of the Jews to the Holy Land, the faith of many waxing cold, the fulfilment of the prophecy foretold in II Timothy, Chapter 3, that "in the last days grievous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, haughty, disobedient to parents, ... lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God."
In her addresses she mentions many such prophecies and is so convinced that the coming of Christ is right at hand that before a great audience in Chicago, recently, she said, "I will return and speak to you in the spring, if He tarrieth."
There is no more remarkable sign of the times than the vast multitudes in the Christian churches who are watching for the imminent return of the Christ.  It is true that they take the Bible prophecies literally, expect him to descend in a material cloud from heaven, with power and great glory, not realizing that they interpret but in part, prophesy in part, and that when the perfect interpretation is come that which is in part shall be done away.
The first great discovery is that he cometh.  The second discovery is how he cometh.  And this has been given to us in the crystal-clear interpretations of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Science and religion are one truth, they tell us.  When he comes he does not contradict the known laws of science.  He comes as a thief in the night.  He comes as the Son of Man.  "Unto us a child is born and unto us a son is given and his name shall be called wonderful, counsellor, ... Prince of Peace."  If he should appear from the sky in a material cloud only a few people could see him, But if he appears in his spiritual reality, like the lightning shining from the east to the west, even the cloud of his body will not prevent the multitudes from beholding the light of his teachings and his world-transforming Holy Spirit.  Only when he appears as a spiritual reality can every spiritual eye see him.  Meeting him in the air is to be interpreted spiritually; our spirits rising to meet him in the heaven of his presence.  His angels are his teachers, visible and invisible, who sum-
page 304
mon his elect from the four corners of the earth.  The resurrection of all those who recognize him and are baptized by his Holy Spirit is the rising from the grave of prejudice and self into the Kingdom of universal peace and love.  And he appears after the sun of the heavens of the old religious order is darkened and the stars of the old ordinances and leaderships have fallen to earth.  But when he comes he is the same sun of divine manifestation rising from the horizon of a new body, a new city, a new name.
The expectation of Christ's return is part of a world-wide anticipation.  Each religion awaits the return of its beloved Prophet.  There is a little mosque, we are told, in the Holy Land, where a priest presides, keeping ready the shoes that the Messiah is to wear when he comes to Jerusalem.  The Zoroastrians are sure that the great Messiah will be born in central Persia; the Jews that he will appear on Mount Zion, when "the valley of Achor" will be "a door of hope" and "Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of God."  Muslim tradition tells about visiting the One in Acre; the Confucianists say that he will appear in the West; Buddhists pray for the coming of the Beloved Maitreya.  Though they may name him by different names, all await the Promised One who will unite the many religions until there shall be one fold, one Shepherd.


XIV:10, January 1924
page 305
Ships that pass in the night
Stanwood Cobb
One of the delights of European travel is the opportunity it gives of meeting people of different races and nationalities and exchanging views with them.  The way in which the coaches of European trains are divided into transverse compartments seating six or eight people, facilitates sociability.  If the journey is of any length one soon gets into conversation with one's neighbours, especially if one knows French, the universal auxiliary language of Europe.
Many pleasant exchanges of opinion and experience take place at this time, when conversation is a boon to while away otherwise tedious hours.  And one can obtain from these sociabilities en route a clear idea and a sincere expression of the native culture and thought, for these casual acquaintances on trains, as on boats, become surprisingly sincere and outspoken.
To Bahá'ís these meetings are of special value because they give an opportunity for spreading the Message.
There are four different types of thought and reaction which one meets with in telling of the Bahá'í Cause.  First are those people who are quite satisfied with life as it is.  Such people today exist in Europe in only a few countries where conditions of living are still pleasant.  Second, are those who lament existing conditions, but are hopeless of any change in human nature of such kind as to effect the desired change in human relationships.  Third, are those who desire a change and are working for it along some line which appeals to them as adequate.  Fourth, are those who despair of life as it is, see no way out of the difficulties, and consequently grasp eagerly at the teachings of the Cause, finding there a ray of hope.
The first class is, as already mentioned, not common in Europe in this epoch of misery and threatening downfall of
page 306
civilization.  The second class I should say predominates.  These must be awakened to a faith in divine power and to a realization that human nature, through the sublimation of religion, can be changed.  The third class is not at present susceptible to the Cause, though perhaps sympathetic and appreciative.  Some of this class are working along spiritual lines similar to our own, and not only they but their work is in reality part of the Kingdom.  Another group of this class is working along anti-religious lines.  That is, they not only have no faith in the power of religion to change human nature and to effect a more perfect organization of mankind, but they are actually opposed to religion, believing it an instrument of the upper classes for the suppression of the working class.  This group composes a very large number of those who are today working most earnestly to change human conditions for the better.  It is a pity that the sins of the church have in the past furnished some grounds for this hostility to it, because there is a great deal of nobility, idealism, and spirit of self-sacrifice in this group of workers, qualities which if permeated and guided by the Holy Spirit could accomplish great good for the human race; but which if spent in strife and race-warfare will serve, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá has said, only to usher the human race into greater misery and hardships.  The last class is increasing rapidly in those countries in Europe which are in suffering and want, and their hearts are fertile ground for seeds of Wisdom and of Truth.  They need only proper gardening to bring forth the flowers and fruit of the Kingdom.
One meets all these classes of people in the course of travel.  For instance, in riding from Hamburg to Berlin, we met a man of the second class.  He was a man of the very highest intelligence, and as I observed, extremely sensitive and sympathetic toward the sufferings of others.  He had been a naval officer during the war.  He had thought much on life, and was a brilliant conversationalist.  Since he knew English well, we could talk all the more readily with him.  He had with him his wife, a Norwegian, two adorable children and a maid.  They did not know English.  He confided to us his chagrin that his wife was bringing up the children according to the old conventions.  Here was a soul innately gentle, and loving, of high ideals, seeking the welfare of humanity, but alas, by the faulty means of further death and destruction.  He was of course impervious to the Cause, for he was a complete enthusiast in his own belief.
On the train from Berlin to Weimar, we got into conversation with the conductor, who seemed a gentle and simple soul.  He had been in the war.  He did not want more war.  His face lit up when we told him of the Cause.  Anything that could prevent war seemed to him praiseworthy.  He took with great pleasure the little booklet (number nine) we gave him, and said goodbye sweetly as he left the train at the end of his run.
An amazing incident took place on the train from Bad Gastein to Innsbruck.  We were in a small compartment with only one other occupant, a lady from Vienna.  Her conversation showing her to be against war and distressed at the continued militancy of Europe, I asked her if she had ever heard of the Bahá'í movement.  "Why, yes!" was her answer.  "Two American ladies on this very train were telling me about it.  They got off an hour ago at Bischofshofen.  They could not speak German much, but they were so eager that they made me understand.  They took my address and are going to send me literature."
What an impression it must have made on the Viennese lady to meet two Bahá'í parties in succession.  She might suppose that half America was Bahá'í.  I saw vividly in my mind's eye the day when Bahá'ís will really be as numerous in America as it might seem to the stranger from her two encounters.
In Persia, where the Cause has made
page 307
such headway, it is the common saying that if four people happen to gather together one of them is sure to be a Bahá'í.  Some years ago the then Persian consul to Cairo, who was a Bahá'í, told me that in Tihrán he happened one day to be in a group of four people, one of whom undertook to combat this current saying.  "How ridiculous," he said, "is the thought that four people cannot gather together without one of them being a Bahá'í!  Here we are together, and none of us are Bahá'ís!"  He, himself, was not a Bahá'í, but the other three men, unknown to him, were all Bahá'ís.  God speed the day when such a saying will become true in America.
This Viennese lady was deeply touched with what we told her.  She read booklet number nine with avidity, and said when she finished it, "I believe everything in it."  We have her address, which we also sent to Herr Herrigel, and we trust she will continue in contact with the friends and with the Cause.  Her interest and zeal were as much an inspiration to us as our message was to her.
The Austrians seem especially susceptible to the Cause.  They are a kindly, sweet-tempered people, grateful for help given them in their national distress, and ready to take up humanitarian ideals, longing, particularly, for something to restore hope to life.
Another friend we met again with pleasure was Monsieur D____ from Budapest-a scholar and thinker, official translator in seven languages, a Pole by birth, citizen of the world by virtue of his natural intelligence and breadth of mind, he had found himself in complete accord with the Bahá'í teaching; and he is eager to start an assembly in Budapest upon his return there in September.  His wife, a sweet Viennese lady, we found amiable and friendly, as indeed are all Viennese.  Monsieur D_____ urged us to visit Budapest in September and help him to start an assembly.  If we cannot do so we trust someone else will be able to help.
These are some of the "ships we passed in the night".  There were others to whom we cannot give space here.  Then, there are the Bahá'í friends whom it is such a joy to meet.  I am writing this at Hotel des Alpes, Mont Pelerin, where Lady Blomfield is also staying.  Each afternoon she reads to us from the book she is writing, episodes in the lives of the Báb, of Bahá'u'lláh, of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and of those noble souls, particularly the women, associated with them in the Cause of God.  These episodes, which she has gathered from 'Abdu'l-Bahá and from his family, she has recorded with such vividness that as she reads them to us we seem to live in the days of the Báb, to glory and to suffer with him and his martyred friends.
Through Lady Blomfield we met also A. Husayn Isfahání, who is completing his studies at Lausanne,-an earnest, radiant Bahá'í, of the kind to make one see a brilliant future for Persia.  He believes that in twenty or thirty years his country will be preponderatingly Bahá'í.  What a glorious prospect, not only for him, but for us all to look forward to.  For when Persia becomes Bahá'í, it will shed the blessings of the Divine Civilization not only on its own citizens, but upon the world.


XIV:11, February 1924
page 330
The life beyond
Stanwood Cobb
At the end of every religious epoch, just when the spirit of religion is being born anew through the agency of a Manifestation of God, humanity finds itself in a lamentable condition of scepticism and disbelief.  Not only does it deny God, but what is more extraordinary, it denies itself.  That is to say, it denies the eternal existence of its own soul, thus putting itself on a level with the beasts and voluntarily abnegating its high estate as children of the Most High God and heirs to a spiritual kingdom.
The superb faith in the future life brought to the world by Christ which so inspired his early followers as to destroy entirely the fear of death, has almost entirely departed from the world of Christendom, yea, even from the hearts of those who call upon his name.
Not only does the materialistic science of today deny the continued existence of the soul; but those who still adhere to the teachings of Christ hold only a tenuous faith in it.  The current phraseology of the day in regard to death is similar to that in the pagan days when Homer sang and lamented the fate of those deprived of this bright earth life.  Yes, in the Occident death today is universally viewed as a misfortune, a deprivation, a substitution for existence of non-existence, or at best of a tenebrous47 existence which is a poor exchange for the glories of our earth life illumined and warmed as it is by the rays of a visible sun.
It is just because humanity is prone to lose the vision, prone to reverse the order of things and put the finite before the infinite, the mortal before the immortal, the material before the spiritual, that it becomes necessary for God to send a Messenger to renew the vision and bring again to humanity the interpretation of this life as a fragment only of complete individual existence.
For the most part, the message of these Spiritual Teachers is one of joy and of great promise.  But there is another aspect to their teaching, a necessary corollary to a future life of joy for the spiritually minded.  If there are to be rewards for the spiritual, there are also to be punishments, or let us say deprivations, for the unspiritual.
This dual teaching of reward and punishment after death has been one of the most important factors in the spreading of the great world religions.  In the teachings of Buddha, of Christ, of Mu-
page 331
hammad, as well as in the teachings of the apostles of these Manifestations, the doctrine of a judgement day, of a time when one's deeds would determine one's subsequent state of existence was greatly emphasized and became an inspiring though stern incentive to the acceptance of the said religion and to the living of a spiritual life.
The vivid symbols and allegories used to warn an ignorant, concrete-minded humanity such as existed in the time of Christ and of Muhammad, such as exists still in large numbers, have been rightly interpreted by modern intelligence as standing for spiritual rather than material rewards and punishments.
This interpretation of eschatology has not prevailed so long but what many Christians still living can look back to the day when the first proponents and expounders of universal salvation, or Universalists as they are called, were considered as anathema by the literal minded.
My grandfather, Rev. Sylvanus Cobb, was among those who first ventured to interpret away the hell fire and brimstone which had perfumed the nostrils of the devout.  He attacked especially the sort of revival sermons delivered by one celebrated contemporaneous divine, who was wont to draw such vivid fire and brimstone portrayals of the judgement day that women screamed and fainted.
That mankind is prone to the concrete is evidenced by the luminous portrayals of the punishment of evil doers in the next life which adorn not only the walls of many a Christian church and monastery, but also the walls of Buddhist temples in the East.  I have myself seen in the monasteries of Greece and of Bulgaria depictions of the tortures of the damned which show a belief as regards God only possible to men in whom the spirit of revenge predominates, to the exclusion of all mercy.
The Universalists were right in seeing such punishments as incompatible with the Divine Mercy, and in interpreting the teachings of Christ as referring not to material things but to the inner, spiritual evolution of the soul; and to a system of intrinsic rather than extrinsic rewards and punishments.  Also they were right in calling the attention of theologians to the fact that the Greek word "aeon" which had been wrongly translated as "eternity" meant rather an "age" or "epoch", thus overthrowing the theory of eternal punishment and substituting for it the theory, much more comforting, of universal salvation.
This doctrine of universal salvation, opening up vistas of eternal progress, opportunities of gaining the spiritual qualities even after the soul has passed through that mystic corridor of Death into a land the nature and laws and customs of which no man fully knoweth-this comforting doctrine has by now permeated the religious thought of advanced thinkers in every sect or denomination.  And that is well.
But as usual the reaction to one extreme has led to the opposite extreme.  Those who still, in this age of agnosticism, keep the faith of an eternal life, hold too careless a thought in regard to it.  It is assumed that everything will be all right there; that God is merciful and kind and wishes everyone to be happy; that somehow death initiates one into the spiritual life of immortality and the blessed state of the saints.
This careless and false assumption is destroying the very essence of the teachings of the Christ, and of every great Founder of Religion.  To interpret the system of rewards and punishments of the religious books as symbolical is well.  But by some kind of legerdemain to whisk away every degree of reward and punishment is to controvert the teachings not only of the Holy Books but of nature and existence as well.  In the universe that we see and know around us
page 332
nothing comes unearned.  Effort is the price to be paid for every good thing.  And the result of non-effort is sorrow and pain.
And this, too, is compatible with, nay, part of, the mercy of God.  For the thing of chief importance to man, as to the stages of life below the human, is effort.  Nothing earned without effort-this is the universal motto, this is the law on which the universe is run.
Applying this law to the doctrine of a future life, one comes face to face with this astounding truth, that immortality has to be earned!  It is not a quality inherent in this earth life, nor a gift lightly laid at the feet of all who die.  How simple and cheerfully unthinking, to assume that the mere event of death can change an unspiritual person into a spiritual one, or usher devotees of the sense-world into an experience available only to those who have during this earth life developed their spiritual susceptibilities!
To maintain this untruth is to deny those stern and mighty laws upon which the universe is built-the law of gravitation, the law of cause and effect, the law of evolution.
Bahá'u'lláh, though in the main bringing to mankind a message of joy, announced also those sterner truths which the world has shrunk from facing.  "Sanctify your souls, O ye peoples of the world, that haply ye may attain that station which God hath destined for you ....
"The essence of these words is this:  they that tread the path of faith, ... must cleanse themselves of all that is earthly ....  Then will they ... become the recipients of a grace that is infinite and unseen, inasmuch as man ... can never enter the abode of immortality, ...."48
Again, interpreting the meaning of the judgement day as taught by former prophets:  "The paradise and fire in the apparent life were and will ever be the acceptance and the rejection; and after the ascension of the spirit, there are paradises which have no equal, and also fire which has no likeness, which are the fruit of the deeds of the advancer and opposer."
It is impossible to consider this life apart from the future life.  It is all one great whole.  The thought of what is to come after death is not only a great comfort in times of earthly stress and suffering, but is also a powerful influence toward right conduct in this life.
'Abdu'l-Bahá has said that without this vision of the next life there cannot be enough incentive to ethical action here.  The rewards and punishments which are assigned here for our actions are as nothing to the more important results of our earthly deeds which come to us in the hereafter.
That is why every Manifestation emphasizes the life hereafter in connection with the teaching of how this life should be lived.
And just what are the rewards of a spiritual life here?  Always, the universal laws are just, logical, beneficent.  And the result hereafter of developing a spiritual nature here is just what one might suppose it to be, the power and ability of enjoying spiritual things.
But here is the impressive fact.  The next world is a world of spirit, not of matter; and spiritual things are the only things one can enjoy there.  No other source of happiness exists.
The terrible deprivation in the hereafter of those who have not developed the spiritual life here must by this become apparent.  There is no immediate possibility of happiness for them in the heaven-world.  Because they have not developed the powers to use and appreciate the things of the heaven-world, they are born into it, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá says, deaf, dumb and blind.
True, they have a sort of existence there, but as the existence in this world of a stone compared to that of a human being.  'Abdu'l-Bahá used another figure, even more appalling, in saying of an immensely wealthy man held as great in the eyes of this world, that in the next
page 333
world he would be rolled up like a scroll and put away.
Is there any salvation possible, then, for those who die sinners and are ushered into the next world in a state of evil?  There is a possibility of progress, but not by self-effort; only through the grace of God and the prayers and efforts of the saints.  That is because the activities of the beyond-world are not as here.  Heaven is not a place for the exercise of self-will, for self-development.  This world is the stage of existence designed for us for self-improving, for struggle against the obstacles which evil sets in our path.  The purpose of this earth life is through it and by means of it to become spiritual.
Oh, if mortals would only realize the importance of this truth, they would drop everything and seek the Kingdom.  Christ has compared it to a hidden treasure, or to a pearl of great price, for which the man aware of values would sell all he had of other wealth.
That is why all the prophets emphasize the importance, the necessity of salvation here and now.  To be born once is to be but an earth-being.  We must be born again to become inhabitants of the Kingdom, spiritual beings, children of God.
And again I say let us not deceive ourselves.  Death does not initiate us into these glories.  The man who is born again, of the spirit, perceives the realities and attains the joys of the spirit here and now, and forever after.  And the man who dies, not in the spirit, faces an existence the tragedy, the suffering of which melts the hearts of angels and causes God Himself, in His great pity, to descend to earth, as it were, in the persons of His Manifestations, to warn humanity of these stern laws, these laws stern yet beneficent.
"Salvation" is the message of these Great Ones.  And the means of "salvation" also they give us, by their word, their lives, by the immense, incalculable influence of their divine enlightenment and spiritual power.
Love, prayer, aspiration toward God; and toward man love and good deeds.  This is the way to salvation.
Shall we say that man is to become good in order to enjoy the after-life?  Or shall we say that becoming good, the rewards of heaven are his?
It matters not which way we look at it.  It is all one.  And the one essence of it all is Love.  Love is the fulfilment of the law, and love is heaven.
So it is plain that the immortal life is a spiritual condition.  Not securable by the physical process of dying.  Not a mere sequence to this earth-life.  But a condition, above time and place, a station to which we may attain while still in the flesh.
And having attained, while here, immortal life, we go on from joy to joy, from miracle to miracle of God's love, travellers in the heavenly world fully equipped for the strange, marvellous journeys there.
And not having attained immortality while here, we enter the other world crippled, halting, still-born, helpless, deprived of the ineffable glories-yea, deprived of every source of happiness.
So it is well while living here to think of the hereafter.  It is well to practise the spiritual life.  It is well to be severed from the world.  Then shall life, even this life, become more glorious the nearer one approaches the limits of the earth-journey.
And for those whose spiritual senses are developed, who wait equipped for the far journey, the departure shall not be tragic.  Death shall lose its sting.  Of those who die spiritual, it is true that ere the heart stops beating the soul is welcomed into paradise; and the body makes no opposition to the going, lays no claim upon its master, holds not back as holds the body of the sense man his soul back in ghastly struggle.  So the good die peacefully.  And in the future ages yet more peacefully, rapt in heavenly essences and perfumes, lulled by Abhá chants.


XIV:11, February 1924
page 334
The angel in the garrison
Horace Holley
Part I
The attempt of modern science to establish a psychology as definite and as authentic as biology is like the fish's efforts to leap a waterfall's upstream.  Long ago has our racial consciousness slipped over the brink of spiritual power into the shallows below.
Our self-knowledge has come to be determined by that inferior level where power may sometimes, indeed, flow in as from above, but where power is neither to be created nor maintained.  Perhaps it would be more accurate to assert that psychology has ceased even attempting to re-ascend the stream:  officially, at least, it is more like the second generation of fish that, spawned beneath the falls, feels only a vague instinct of the height which gives its own waters renewal.  In modern psychology, as taught in the schools, there may be much logos, but there is no psyche.  The mind's camera has been exposed in a darkened room.
For the essence of this matter is that the psyche is not spiritual fact observable, but a spiritual power to observe all fact.  It is not a series of mysterious observations which can be organized into authentic knowledge, it is a mysterious but authentic gift to know.  It is not an image of things within which may or may not be real; it is an inner eye which may or may not be possessed.  True genius, scientific as well as religious, has always been aware of this fact.
The method of this "psychology" was borrowed, of course, from natural science.  Natural science is organized knowledge, definite fact, authenticate observation.  Its field of observation is nature; its power of observation is intellect.  Now intellect transcends the phenomena of nature as the physical eye transcends the objects upon which it turns its vision.  The intellect may, indeed, misapprehend the significance of phenomena in particular instances, as in particular instances the eye may erroneously determine perspective, but from the very nature of things the most unintelligent mind cannot fall to a level of consciousness lower than the phenomenon itself.  Its relative advantage remains secure in the same way that the relative advantage between vision and visioned remains secure to the eye.  Here there can be no question of the knower slipping downstream with respect to the thing known.  Man is fast anchored upstream to the rest of nature as the animal is anchored upstream to the plant, or the plant to the mineral.  The problem of natural science, therefore, was never the problem of establishing its own power to know, but merely to establish authentic knowledge of things knowable from the beginning.  The mind has grown more accurate through training, but the mind was trained, not created, by its dealings with natural phenomena.  Mind created science, science did not create mind.  But because our age has been influenced, with respect to consciousness, by the authority of the natural sciences more than from any other source, we have come unquestioningly to accept the dictum of science concerning the proper method of investigating consciousness itself.
But the essential superiority of the knower to the known which obtains between rational intelligence and natural phenomena by no means determines the relation of knower to known as between rational consciousness and the essential nature of man.  The most that any psychologist can claim for his own consciousness is that it exists, but its existence, obviously, is conditioned by its po-
page 335
sition relative to the entire stream.  The psychologist's self-consciousness may appear to him complete and aware of no higher existences, but this very completeness may conceivably correspond to a mere stagnant pool shut off from the main current.  For even the most dogmatic psychologist cannot avoid the differentiation between minds, the differentiation manifested perceptibly between Shakespeare and his readers, for example, or between Christ and his followers.  But the materialistic psychologist explains all such differentiation without altering the essential character of his own consciousness in the least-without even, apparently, realizing any need for altering it.  He explains genius, whether religious or artistic, by establishing its factors in terms of heredity, environment or physiological status.  Genius appears to him either a greater accumulation of elements present in every mind, or their mere superior arrangement, or, on the contrary, their disarrangement into abnormal states.  In other words, he translates the phenomena of consciousness into a medium lower than consciousness itself.  He breaks consciousness up into elements similar in degree to the elements which are the raw material, the objective, of natural science.  Since the psychologist cannot remove the manifestation of genius-its religion or its poetry-he solicits every possible circumstance of heredity, environment and physiology to sustain his own inherent, unalterable conscious perspective, thereby, for the unwary, obscuring the very fact at issue:  that genius is not the power of impression but the power of expression.  Genius renders from the inside out, while the psychologist can only register from the outside in.  He consequently emphasizes heredity, environment and physiological status because these are all three alike external, material conditions supremely significant to minds whose power of impression surpasses their power of expression, though they are supremely insignificant to minds conscious of possessing an independent creative force.  This is not to assert that heredity, environment and physiological factors do not condition expression, for they do; but their influence is limited to conditioning the form, the extent and sometimes the direction which expression assumes:  not one of them singly, nor all combined, can explain the force by which they are shaken into significant patterns of character and art.  Heredity may be as the oil of the lamp, environment may be as the coloured globe, and physiological status as the wick, but genius is the flame.  To establish the formula of genius in terms of neurotic instability is to betray unmistakably at last the spiritual prostitution to which science has fallen in these latter days.  Its triumph is the triumph of logic merely, which convinces only those who start from the same premise; an ominous triumph in this case, since the authority of science has been able to transform much of the world's reverence for valuable spiritual gifts into indifference or sympathetic contempt as for the victim of some mysterious mental ill.
Though responsibility for accepting a material psychology may be forgiven the general, it is more difficult to overlook the responsibility of the scientist himself.  He should have recalled the early history of his own subject, the days of Galileo and Kepler, when reason itself, as the power of establishing authentic laws of matter, was upstream to the priest's consciousness; when the priest, consequently, began his attack against reason by denying its validity and ended by condemning it as a dangerous perversion of human nature.  In those days the scientist had to defend himself against a consciousness intellectually so much lower that its attack must have seemed as unreasonable to him as would be the attack of so many trees.  But today the psychologist himself, since he cannot create art must obviously be downstream to the artist, just as, since he cannot create devoted faith and self-sacrifice among multitudes of people over centuries of time,
page 336
he must be even farther downstream with respect to the founders of religion.  Had the modern materialist, however, realized the case of his own predecessor, he might have felt himself into the profound truth so far denied his reason; that while language is universal, experience is confined to those inhabiting the same spiritual domain.  Religious conviction today, in a world of rational materialism, occupies the same position relative to the scientist as the scientist, in those days of dominant theology, occupied relative to the priest.  The position is that of a Macbeth against whom advances the nightmare of Birnum wood.
Into a world rationalized as regards ideal if not action, religion has unexpectedly returned, renewing in men the strange lost sense of the soul.  Slipping easily through the meshes of biological "truth", and become a force in consciousness itself, this spiritual renaissance cannot be denied-like an angel in the garrison it can only be recognized and obeyed.  By individuals, religious experience can be cherished for its own sake in the very teeth of reason; but one may be certain that in this pragmatic age religion may not establish social forms until science has come to terms with its every claim.  The task of testing religion, of course, was never rightly the province of biology, and only appeared so while religion was considered in the perspective of history.  In the personal perspective, which its return compels, the task falls once more to psychology.  But the psychology born of natural science, as shown, rests upon an absolutely false premise.  Its premise does not contain that easily vulnerable falsehood which can be disclosed in terms of the correspondence of phenomena; its premise is the more impregnable falsehood consisting in the fact that the psychologist himself is essentially incapable of fulfilling his function.  It is not his method which fails, but his experience.  He develops his mental film capably enough.  The trouble is that the film is blank.
II
To indict the psychology, therefore, is to indict the psychologist himself.  But to indict the psychologist is also to render verdict against the society accepting a premise whose error it never required an elaborate laboratory or special instruction to expose, but only the determination of the individual heart to safeguard its own fairest hope.  Society accepted a material psychology because its strongest determination fell in the material world.  Spiritual affirmation there has been, even under the reign of the gods of coal and iron, but affirmation which cast back to the days when science could reasonably be ignored.  Increasingly now there is spiritual experience among those who would not ignore science even if they could, but these minds still hesitate to press their claims against an authority traditionally opposed to that claim, and one whose method and positive achievement they rightly admire.
The scientific mind came to be considered the true type of supreme intelligence as the result of three distinct influences:  the triumph of science over theology in the question of facts; the positive achievement of science in its own field; and last but not least, the rise of universal education.  The rapid spread of literacy, and the growing need of education as part of one's equipment for labour, served to identify science with the new effectiveness and advantages of education itself.  Knowledge came to imply book knowledge, and the reader of books attributed his own new sense of increased power, naturally enough, to the sources from which it was chiefly supplied.  The triumph of natural science as ideal standard of truth was made complete by the basis it seemed to render all men for a conviction of intellectual self-sufficiency.  But universal education was made possible only by enthroning the lowest of all intellectual faculties, memory.  Memory alone will give the
page 337
student possession enough of his texts to meet an institutional standard, because institutional standards necessarily make education a matter of receptivity; and the mastery of only a few books under this system creates in the student's mind the conviction that he could, if he so desired, succeed to the heritage of all human wisdom.  All human wisdom supposedly being reducible to three feet of wood-pulp and leather.  It would be merely a question of adding more rungs to the ladder already begun.  This feeling on the part of students has created a tendency on the part of their masters to re-write all old works for which a new need was felt-especially history and philosophy-and to re-write them in terms of the modern standard.  In the process of translating history and philosophy into the language of economic values, much unsound material undoubtedly was cut away; but the translators cut away also even more material which had permanent significance as witnessing the faith of men in their own spiritual destiny.  Faults of an unscientific material were attributed to the maker's mind; an easy superiority of fact was considered an equally easy superiority of intelligence.  Thus another influence was added to the economic pressure already operating toward opportunism, and co-operating with it prevented the average person from perceiving the gap intervening between the receptive mind, whose faculty is memory, and the creative mind, whose faculty is insight.  The heritage to all human wisdom, the proud boast of democracy in education, is a heritage of external fact merely.  To the true heritage of wisdom, the quality attaching to minds independently of their material, there have appeared few heirs; for minds so trained, so penetrated from the beginning with the need to go on, ever on, through field after field of fact, seldom have opportunity to realize that there soon comes a point where the longest ladder will not serve, but wings are required.  Never suspecting his own inadequate psychic instrument, the modern layman does not suspect the inadequacy of the scientist's intelligence for the task of psychology.  The scientist, indeed, has only succeeded to the Parthian victory of the priest-that victory whose tragedy consists in the fact that, having been too easily won, it leads the victor to overestimate his own powers.
For these reasons, then, the nineteenth century was content to huddle upon one small island in the sea of human consciousness.  It not only cut itself off from the larger area of ancient experience, but even vaunted its own ability to do so as the symbol of truest intellectual freedom.  But that small island has been revealed in all its abject desolation by the War.  Two waves of experience, rolling from opposite directions, have overwhelmed it forever:  the soldier's consecration to a spiritual power not received from without but welling up in his own being, and the civilian's realization that social stability, even for prosperity on its lowest terms, requires a directive force not resident in the scientific ideal.  The scientific ideal has served not life but death, thereby revealing itself less as the criminal to be punished than as the servant to be put under control.  Its authority to establish a final standard of truth has, at any rate, been discredited; the problem now is rather to organize a new conviction than to reinterpret an old doubt.
III
As a matter of fact, at the very moment when the cleavage appears between consciousness and natural phenomena, the real contribution science has made the race in the way of thought now first becomes evident.  Turning once more, in the light of personal aspiration, to direct contact with spiritual conviction in its original sources, we are struck by the fact that this conviction, from lack of precise and mutual knowledge, possessed an inadequate instrument of
page 338
thought by which to express itself to other minds.  The soul of the older, pre-scientific race expressed itself as a kind of poetry, by allusion and image; expression whose content is therefore necessarily limited to those sharing the key.  Real enough to the possessor, religion became dark and shadowy in the process of transfer from one to another mind.  Viewed from the perspective of inexperience, its concepts are as actors whose backs are turned to the audience, losing the plot in the mazes of half-heard echo.  The man of religion spoke a language apart, a lover's language, certain that his every winged word would find a nest in the heart of him moved by the same passion; unable to image that passion completely to the cold.  In other words, religion was given the race in the form of implicit knowledge, a knowledge continually betrayed when translated into the medium of customary speech.  But science, creating an external universe mutually perceptible and firmly grasped, has made knowledge explicit.  Steeped in the habits of explicit thought, the modern mind differs from the ancient mind not so much in thinking different thoughts as in thinking the same thoughts in a different way.  Science has placed the transfer of experience upon a new, socialized basis.  The actor now faces his audience, revealing the whole plot.  One mind can give its all to another mind through their mutual possession of the same external universe.  Slowly but surely knowledge has been turned inside out.  This fact, the necessity of science, is also the opportunity of religion.  For the first time may we perceive another's soul as positive light in the world of communicable thought, not merely as negative, shadow.  For the first time is the mystery of being captured from knowledge, where it perishes, and given the knower, where it lives on.  For the first time also can religion be socialized above and beyond ritual and form on the plane of explicit instruction.  And the development of mind as self-consciousness from thought implicit to thought explicit actually turns both ways, enabling us to perceive at last that religion and science required one another from the beginning-that the relation of one to the other, in fact, is nothing more or less than the relation of soul and body in the social organization.


XIV:12, March 1924
page 334
The angel in the garrison
Horace Holley
Part II
If the real problem at issue were the difference in degree which exists between the consciousness of the material psychologist, or the believer in material psychology, and the man who has undergone spiritual experience, the argument would stick fast on the shoals of practical impossibility.  But this is not the problem at issue.  However it may appear, spiritual experience is not a personal, untransferable gift, like talent or temperament.  The chief point to be examined is less that the "spiritual" mind differs from the "material" mind in degree than that, wherever on the stream of reality the latter happens to be located, it faces the other way.  The material mind faces downstream.  This is the source of their disagreement, that the scientific attitude has its back to the religious attitude.  The scientific attitude is concerned with a reality not only downstream to spiritual attainment, but downstream to its own being.  Its point of view upon the human drama is the point of view of the lower natural order.  The properties of its spectacles it attributes to its eye.
The basis of science is the conviction that conscious states derive as effects from physiological conditions.  This conviction is one capable of proof.  The proof itself is unquestionably sound to those establishing it.  The proof consists of fact as well as theory, of demonstration as well as hypothesis.  The proof cannot rationally be denied, but actually, however, it can be overstepped.  For physiological conditions, while they do determine states of consciousness, and do so in human conduct as rigorously as the procedure of mathematics, are causal only for the minds facing downstream.  The law holds, but it is not the only law.  For minds facing upstream-even from the bottom of the stream itself-another law, apparently contradictory, operates.  For the consciousness which has learned to seek its reality upstream, in the spiritual order, that which was cause becomes effect, and that which was effect becomes cause.  Consciousness dilates, aware of itself as knower rather than mere repository of knowledge, as steadfast love rather than capricious lover; regards its previous state as death compared to life, as seed compared with flower; and stepping as it were from the moonlight of reflected being into the sunlight of being direct and essential, perceives the tyranny of nature replaced by the intimate regard of one all-sustaining Friend.  This is the difference, then, between the two attitudes we call spiritual and material:  that the spiritualized mind faces the sun of life, the materialized mind its own projected shadow.
Much confusion exists as the result of the terms "inner" life and "outer" life, which serve less to distinguish the upstream from the downstream of consciousness than to oppose inactivity to activity of conduct.  The mind turned upon itself for nourishment too frequently asks for bread and receives a stone.  The mind's sustenance is actually not what it contains, in the way of acquired ideas or even personal talents, but what it receives, in the way that a spring receives fresh water or a flower receives light.  The well-stored mind, especially the mind with a talent, undoubtedly has, in comparison, a semblance of independent "inner" life, but this independence is by comparison merely, as by comparison the camel is able to go without food.  The real life of man is not thought but recognition of God.  The first step toward real life is not to acquire more ideas, but to effect a different attitude.  In other
page 363
words, the first step is to turn consciousness about from a downstream perception to a perception upstream.  This involves the mind as the mirror of reality, not as the storehouse of impressions.  Memory and imagination are not concerned; what is concerned is insight, the dove sent forth from the ark of consciousness to find a point of dry land.
Here lies the preliminary difficulty which diverts many modern minds from spiritual attainment to psychic development-that in and by itself the intelligence is not a boat which can readily be turned about, but rather like the breath by which the mirror is obscured.  The capacity of minds to take on new ideas and discard old ones is not like the ship's freedom of movement about the sea, but the passenger's freedom about the ship.  It does not avoid the consequences of wreck, if toward wreck the vessel is directed.  All the customary faculties, memory, will, reason, which in the material mind are concerned with the lesser interest, and exist in terms of the lesser interest, must be detached, from that object and made to function for a different end.  That change in the character of consciousness which transmutes material into spiritual being depends upon an awareness of self not as passenger in the ship, but as the ship itself.
Spiritual development, consequently, is a matter of humility, that humility which follows the loss of the sense of independence self-contained.  The true nature of humility is not hateful self-abasement, but the perception of an object of devotion which creates a joy so profound that self is forgotten.  An example of real humility is the youth possessing elements of greatness in art.  At this stage, the mind is downstream to attainment, but pointed upstream to attainment in others because this attitude serves the instinctive best interests of the awakening mind.  It receives impressions from the masterpieces of art in the only way that impressions retain their dynamic quality, by giving them entrance into the mind as from above, in terms of the same qualities by virtue of which the masterpieces were originally created.  It reverences that aspect of other minds which it reverences in itself.  Genius is far nearer the attitude of humility than is mediocrity.  It is the capacity for humility which sets one upon the way of power.  That capacity is never a matter of the physical will, whose instinct is to dominate, but of the spiritual will, whose nature is to be inspired.  In the spiritual world, the virtues arrange themselves in a scale the reverse of the physical virtues.  Possession and domination follow last; the foremost are obedience and response.
However, obedience and response bring strength only to the mind that has found levels of being higher than its own.  To respond to new impulses within self, originated by self, merely substitutes one incapacity for another.  Darkness can not drive itself away, it flees only from light.  Efforts to achieve religion through a mere understanding of new ideas may change the image in the mirror; it will not remove the blur.  One confronts the fact here that religion has nearly everywhere been reduced to the lower terms of knowledge or conduct, so that society closes round the inquiring mind a darkness like its own.  All things of all lives can be explained in terms of material intelligence, for every experience entering the material intelligence, either at first or second hand, takes on the shadow of the closed room.  The problem as to whether spiritual reality actually exists is not like the question as to whether a certain picture hangs in a locked room, which depends upon the picture, but the question is whether the picture contains the quality of beauty, which depends also upon the inquiring eye.
The book of Job is the eternal drama of the search for God, for spiritual reality, on the part of a consciousness surrounded by materialism.  The name of religion is constantly employed, and
page 364
the authority of religion freely acknowledged, but the miracle of the spiritual life cannot be performed.  Job himself was one with his environment until cast outside its resources by extremity of misfortune and pain.  Even when feeling himself outside, he turns again and again to it for consolation.  Job's friends typify the various ideas held about the spiritual life by complacently darkened minds.  One and all, these are but material attitudes disguised under the terminology of faith.  One and all, they represent mind in its relation to the downstream of experience-their content is derived from the usages of society, and all they actually know of the eagle is the empty nest.  The God of Job's friends is nature adapted to the social organism.  But the walls of Job's mind have been broken through as by the weight of a falling tree.  He has learned the limit of darkness for the first time through the power of light.  Little by little his being adapts itself to the direct rays of the sun, until his intelligence formulates the astonishment of the sprouted seed.  He stands outside himself as the sprout stands outside the seed; all his senses respond to their vital power of expansion through a new cycle of growth.  From being one who had derived all his happiness from possession, he becomes one who brings to possession a greater joy.  From being dependent on things, he learns to render the material world to his new vision as means to an end.  He learns that spiritual reality is not the mirage of social prosperity, but social prosperity is its mirage.  He learns that the way to God is not that narrow, crowded gate which typifies social competition, but the freedom of every sail to receive the wind once the sail has been unfurled.  The path of the spirit brings many agonies, but these have to do with unfurling the sails; never do they mean that the wind has fallen to a dead calm.
In his endeavour to reach upstream to that self we make remote under the cloudy title "soul", Job left behind every element of thought and emotion, every faculty and attribute, and breasted the current only by becoming one selfless detachment from desire.  His consciousness passed as it were through the narrow door of death, where the back carries no burden and the hands no gift.  His lost lands and his lost loves merely objectify his loss of the habitual factors of self; his physical agony in the same way represents supreme mental confusion, the quivering patches of shadow and light.  But on the further side of that door, when the process came to fulfilment, to Job was rendered back his memory and will, his desires and thoughts and emotions, his recognitions and relationships-all the possessions of self by which being is maintained.  But their moment of annihilation in "death" had severed their attachment to the physical centres of life; and their return was as the agencies of spirit.  Immortality ascended into his life as sap to the bud in spring.  Without physical death, he entered heaven from the earth of his own nature.  The heaven he entered was not merely that easier environment which allows "soul" to exist as summer allows existence to the butterfly; it was itself established through the power of his own new perception.  Soul does not come by wishing for heaven-heaven comes with the attainment of soul.  All the emphasis religion brings to bear on life, in material societies, is vain and sterile by reason of our submission to the mere continuity of time.  We remain on the surface of self as the fly upon water.  We recognize the supreme transformations of death, but we attribute them to the physical death shared by the serpent and the weed.  We develop the strength of giants for the downstream of things, but for their upstream reality we remain as children in the womb.  The defensive armour we have cast from our bodies we still retain for our minds.  We avoid the Armageddon of self by keeping within that darkened cave where the sun of truth enters not.
page 365
There are three stages in spiritual development; the first is that in which consciousness is like the passengers in a ship, borne they know not where; in the second stage, consciousness becomes as it were the ship itself; but in the third stage it seems like the very sea.  To the ship, storms are ominous, fatal-to the sea they are passages of its eternal music, evidences of its greatness, renewers of its power.  From this condition the soul looks out upon the world neither as conqueror nor slave, but as an actor in the drama of God.
The reason that a spiritual leader like Gandhi seems to be recognized by the world more readily than is the spiritual Servant, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, comes from the fact that Gandhi's influence operates directly in the field of politics, which everybody understands and most people consider supremely important, while 'Abdu'l-Bahá's influence operates directly upon the unseen world of the soul, which alas few people give the first or in fact any vital place in the scheme of life.  'Abdu'l-Bahá was and is invisible to all save those who are truly humble:  to them he is more visible than the sun.  In the steadfastness of this supreme conviction the friends of 'Abdu'l-Bahá may gaze serenely out upon the epic happenings of the day, beholding Job relived in the struggles and agonies of humanity itself; pain multiplied everywhere as never before, until through darkness as of annihilation, men become aware of the sound of the Voice of God.


XIV:11, February 1924
page 338
The scientific religion
Kate Kempner
Professor Auguste Forel, the famous French psychiatrist, out lines in a pamphlet, Homme et Fourmi, (Lausanne 1923) a so-called programme human practicable-a practicable programme for mankind which in some form or other must be adopted, if humanity is to survive the destructive forces of civilization-war, alcoholism, etc.  Among other points Professor Forel states the necessity of a universal international auxiliary language, as well as that of a universal religion, which he calls the scientific, synthetic, super-national religion of the Bahá'ís for the commonwealth of the world-without dogma, without clergy.  He says that in 1920 he learned of the existence of the Bahá'í Faith, founded almost seventy years before, in the Orient, which gives itself to the service of mankind, to which Christian, Buddhist, Muslim, Brahman, Jew or Monist can belong, which leaves aside all discussion of the metaphysical nature of God, the Devil, paradise, hell, etc.
When Professor Forel found the Bahá'í Movement; he who previously had been opposed to the existing religions, because he saw nothing but creeds and sects, obscuring the reality of religion, became a follower of Bahá'u'lláh and 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
He founded a Bahá'í group in Zurich, Switzerland, and professes that according to his opinion [that the] Bahá'í Faith is the religion of the future.


XIV:11, February 1924
page 339
The Bahá'í peace plan49
'Abdu'l-Bahá's plan for universal peace begins with certain divine principles.  Its central note is universality:  "Every universal cause is divine and every particular one is temporal.  The principles of the divine Manifestations of God were, therefore, all-universal and all-inclusive.
"Every imperfect soul is self-centred and thinketh only of his own good.  But as his thoughts expand a little he will begin to think of the welfare and comfort of his family.  If his ideas still more widen, his concern will be the felicity of his fellow citizens; and if still they widen, he will be thinking of the glory of his land and of his race.  But when ideas and views reach the utmost degree of expansion and attain the stage of perfection, then will he be interested in the exaltation of humankind.  He will then be the well-wisher of all men and the seeker of the weal and prosperity of all lands.  This is indicative of perfection."50
To overcome the antagonistic forces of nature, its narrowness, its prejudices, its selfishness, its instinct of the survival of the fittest, its accumulated traditions of war, the successful peace plan must be.  based upon the adamantine law of the universe-the universal justice of God.  Only that peace plan which has God behind it can hope to be triumphant.
This, then, in part and in outline is the divine peace plan revealed by Bahá'u'lláh over fifty years ago, and presented by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the last twenty years to all parts of the world.
1.  All must investigate the truth with an independent mind, with the eye of
page340
justice, if they are to find God's new path to universal peace.
2.  The foundation of the palace of peace is the consciousness of the oneness of mankind.  All are God's children.  He is kind to all.  He loves all.  He nourishes all.  "In every century a particular and central theme is, in accordance with the requirements of that century, confirmed by God.  In this illumined age that which is confirmed is the oneness of the world of humanity.  Every soul who serveth this oneness will undoubtedly be assisted and confirmed."51  "Therefore we must promulgate divine teachings", "proclaim the oneness of the world of humanity", "that ignorant, religious, racial, political and even patriotic prejudices may vanish and the earth become one home and all people be unified."
3.  To establish universal peace all the nations will need to hold a universal conference and establish a Parliament of Man, a supreme tribunal which shall represent every nation of the world, its people and its government.  Its representatives in this universal conference should be "two or three persons who are the choicest men of that nation, and are well informed concerning international laws and the relations between governments and aware of the essential needs of the world of humanity in this day.  The number of these representatives should be in proportion to the number of inhabitants of that country."52  These representatives should choose the members of the International Court of Arbitral Justice.  The organization of this World Society of nations and its supreme tribunal should be written into a universal treaty, in which "the limits and frontiers of each and every nation should be clearly fixed, [and] the principles underlying the relations of governments towards one another definitely laid down, ..."53, and its special, national interests preserved.
4.  In this treaty "the size of the armaments of every government should be strictly limited, ..."54  "By a general agreement all the governments of the world must disarm simultaneously.  It will not do if one lays down the arms and the other refuses to do so."55  "Once the Parliament of Man is established and its constituent parts organized, the governments of the world having entered into a covenant of eternal friendship will have no need of keeping large standing armies and navies.  A few battalions to preserve internal order, and an International Police to keep the highways of the sea clear, are all that will be necessary.  Then these huge sums will be diverted to other more useful channels, pauperism will disappear, knowledge will increase, the victories of Peace will be sung by poets and bards, knowledge will improve the conditions and mankind will be rocked in the cradle of felicity and bliss."56
5.  All the nations having chosen the Supreme Tribunal, all mankind should enforce its decisions.  "First;  the financiers and bankers must desist from lending money to any government contemplating the waging of an unjust war upon an innocent nation.  Second:  the presidents and managers of the railroads and steamship companies must refrain from transporting war ammunition, infernal engines, guns, cannons and powder from one country into another.  Third:  the soldiers must petition, through their representatives, the Ministers of War, the politicians, the Congressmen and the generals to put forth in clear, intelligible language the reasons and the causes which have brought them to the brink of such a national calamity.  The soldiers must demand this as one of their prerogatives.  'Demonstrate to us,' they must say, 'that this is a just war, and we will then enter into the battlefield; otherwise we will not take one step.'"57
As a last measure, all the nations will use their limited armies and their international police to bring the offending nation to submit to the decisions of the Supreme Tribunal.
6.  To render successful the army of peace and to make it triumphant the society of nations will need to enlist every force that makes for the unification of mankind:
page 341
a)	A universal language, to be chosen by the world conference and taught in all the schools of all nations in addition to the mother tongue.
b)	Universal, full participation of the women in the suffrage and the political counsels of the nations.  "If, in the future, women like unto men are given the franchise assuredly they will prevent the occurrence of war."58
c)	The establishment of a just economic order to be established by the united assemblies of the governments of the world, "so that neither the capitalist suffer from enormous losses nor the labourers become needy. ...  When such a general plan is adopted by the will of both sides, should a strike occur, all the governments of the world collectively should resist it."59
d)	Universal education for peace.  "The education of all the children of all the religions, under a universal standard of instruction and a common curriculum."  "The duty of educated men is to teach in the universities and schools ideas concerning universal peace so that the student may be so moulded that in after years he may help to carry to fruition this most useful and human issue of mankind."
7.  The supreme force for unity and peace is religion.  But to be successful religion must be stated in accordance with modern thought, united with modern science.  True religion and true science will then flood the world with light upon light.  Fundamentally there is only one truth, one reality, one religion-the oneness of God, the oneness of mankind, the power of the Holy Spirit.
8.  Divine civilization through the spiritual conquest of nature is the goal of the radiant century before us.  Material civilization is the lamp; divine civilization is the light.
"Thou observest that at present the East and the West are enveloped in the darkness of the world of nature.  Almost everybody is pursuing material interests.  They are like unto other animals that are drowned in the world of nature.  The cow is an absolute materialist and is completely enslaved by nature.  She has no knowledge of the world of humanity and has no trace of spiritual power.  She is drowned in the world of nature.  She is, according to the phraseology of the civilized ones, a great naturalist, because she comprehends nothing but perceptible objects and counts them as a determined fact.  She has not perceived the fragrance of spiritual feelings, human discoveries and intellectual sciences.  She is a pure materialist.
"In short, today the life of the world of humanity is the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh, provided they are practised, so that they may raise the pavilion of the oneness of the world of humanity, uproot the antiquated and decadent prejudices and emancipate (all) from the blind imitations of the people of superstition, or, according to the saying of Christ, bring the second birth, and the birth from the spirit be realized."
"The teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh like unto the rays of the sun illumined the East as well as the West, vivify the dead and unite the various religions.  They prove the Oneness of God, for they gather all communities of the world under the pavilion of the oneness of the world of mankind.
"Consider how stirred the world is and in what a commotion are the people of the world.  Heavenly Power is needed to do away with this stir and agitation.  Otherwise, this great Cause will not be realized through human power.  Human power, no matter how strong it may be, it illumines like unto an ignited lamp a limited space and trains a small number of souls.  It is the sun which illumines all regions, and it is the Heavenly Power which gathers around a single spot all the sects and communities.  Strive therefore, that thou mayest serve this remarkable Power and attain unto profitable and far reaching results."60


XIV:12, March 1924
page 353
Extracts from Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
Addressed to Mrs Isabella D. Brittingham
O thou who art spreading the fragrances of God!  Verily, thy letter was received and I was informed of thy chanting the Verses of God in the spiritual assemblies, of thy excellent speech and eloquent address in the illumined gatherings.  I ask God to confirm thee by the Breaths of the Holy Spirit, so that explanations may flow from thy tongue like unto the flowing of the river and the meetings may be shaken by thy stating the proofs of the appearance of the Kingdom of God and the diffusion of the fragrances of God in this wonderful, glorious and excellent century.
O handmaiden of God!  Verily, God has confirmed thee in spreading the fragrances of God in those climes.  Be a pillar of fire and a cloud of light and a blessed tree in the vineyard of God, the Precious, the Forgiving.
As to trials (tests in the path of God), verily, they are necessary.  Hast thou not heard and read how there appeared trials from God in the day of Jesus, and thereafter, and how the whirlwind of tests became severe?  Even the glorious Peter was not rescued from the flame of trials, and wavered.  Then he repented and mourned the mourning of a bereaved one and his lamentations reached unto the Celestial Concourse.  Is it, then, possible to be saved from the trials of God?  No, verily.  There is a great wisdom therein, of which no one is aware save the wise and knowing.
Were it not for tests genuine gold could not be distinguished from the counterfeit.  Were it not for tests the courageous could not be known from the coward.  Were it not for tests the people of faithfulness could not be known from those of selfishness.  Were it not for tests the intellects and faculties of the scholars in the great colleges would not be developed.  Were it not for tests the sparkling gems could not be known from worthless pebbles.  Were it not for tests the fisherman could not be distinguished from Annanias and Caiaphas who were amid glory (worldly dignity).  Were it not for tests the face of Mary, the Magdalene, would not glisten with the light of firmness and certainty unto all horizons.  These are some of the mysteries of tests which we have unfolded unto thee that thou mayest become cognizant of the mysteries of God in every cycle.  Verily, I pray God to illumine the faces as pure gold in the fire of tests.
As the servants and the handmaidens of the Merciful stand firmly and persevere, the good seed will soon grow in the field and bear the fruit of blessing.  Then will spirituality and fragrance prevail and joy and rejoicing come from the Heavenly Sphere, sorrows and toil shall be forgotten and eternal peace and rest appear.
Regarding the two wings of the soul, these mean wings of ascent.  One is the wing of knowledge, the other of faith, for these are the means of the ascent of the human soul to the lofty station of divine perfection.


XIV:12, March 1924
page 359
The story of the princess
Adapted from lectures given by Jináb-i-Avárih in England.
Shamsí-Jahán Khánum, whose name means "Sun of the World", was a granddaughter of Sháh Fath-'Alí and a relative of the then Sháh.  She was interested in religion and had made a pilgrimage to Mecca.  Because of this pilgrimage she was called Hájí Khánum.  She heard that Qurratu'l-'Ayn wrote beautiful poems, and as she herself occasionally wrote poetry she longed to see the poems of Qurratu'l-'Ayn.
One day she and her maids went out, under pretence of taking a walk.  They came to the garden of the Kalántar61 and entering it Hájí Khánum gradually approached the house in whose top story Qurratu'l-'Ayn was imprisoned.  The Princess later wrote a book of poetry-it is in her own handwriting and in my possession-in which she describes her experience.  When she reached the building she turned to God and said, "O God, if this Cause is true, make Qurratu'l-'Ayn come forward and let me see her."
"As soon as I had thus prayed," she writes, "the window of the top story suddenly opened and Qurratu'l-'Ayn, like a brilliant sun, looked out and called to me, 'What dost thou want, O Princess?'
"I was so astonished that I stared at her, solemnly, and then began to cry.  She smiled and laughed at me and when I saw this I was deeply affected.  It seemed to me strange that I, a Princess and quite free, should be walking into this garden and crying, while she, a prisoner in that little room, was laughing.
"I said to her, 'O Lady, I would like to know why you are imprisoned?'
"She replied, 'Because I have spoken the truth.  Why did the descendants of Muhammad fall into captivity?  Because they, also, spoke the truth.'
"I asked her, 'Where is the truth?'
"She said, 'The centre of truth appeared in the world and they killed him.'
"I asked her, 'Is it the one they killed in Tabríz?'
"'Yes,' she answered.  'He was our Promised One, your Promised One and mine, and they martyred him.'
page 360
"Then I asked, 'Who were those people who were in the Fortress of Tabarsí?'
"She said, 'They, also, were his disciples.'"
The Princess now writes, "At this point in our conversation the guards suddenly heard me and came rushing into the garden; but before I was aware of their approach Qurratu'l-'Ayn called to me, 'O Princess, go, lest you fall into trouble!' and she shut the window and withdrew.  Then the servants of the Kalántar came up to me and said, 'What are you doing here, Lady?'
"Vexed with them, I replied, 'I came here for a walk.'
"Although they knew what was my object yet, out of respect, they merely replied, 'Very well.  Now that you have finished your walk, kindly leave the place.'
"For several days after this I wept and cried, and I longed to see once more this lady, the prisoner, until at last God heard my prayer and again I saw Qurratu'l-'Ayn, at the wedding of the son of the Kalántar."
While Qurratu'l-'Ayn was a prisoner in the house of the Kalántar one of his sons married a young girl.  The night of the wedding, when all the Princesses and the ladies of the Royal Household were assembled in the Kalántar's home, one of these royal ladies said, "It would be interesting to see that Bahá'í lady who is a prisoner here."  All the ladies joined in her wish, and asked for Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  Finally they sent a message to the Kalántar beseeching him and saying that it would be a real joy, and a wedding present if he would let them see the prisoner.
They sent for Qurratu'l-'Ayn and brought her from her prison room to the wedding feast.  One of the Princesses described her thus:  "When I saw her my heart was filled with happiness.  When Qurratu'l-'Ayn entered the room, she was so beautiful and so dignified, and when she spoke it was with such power that we in the room gradually turned to her and came and listened to her, and forgot all about the wedding."  She spoke with great enthusiasm-and now she related her sorrows, in stories, and the ladies began to weep, and again she told them stories that made them laugh, and as she walked up and down the room she chanted her poems in so wonderful a way that everyone was astonished.  No one of the ladies wished to hear or to see any more of the wedding festivities; nay rather, they listened to her almost the entire evening.  And as a result of that night's experience many of those ladies, of whom the Princess, Hájí Khánum, was one, became firm followers of the Cause.
From this night all the ladies of the Kalántar's household were greatly attached to Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  They asked the Kalántar's permission to have her live in the house with them, rather than in the little room in the garden.  So she was brought to the house and was closely associated with the ladies there.  One of the maids in the house of the Kalántar tells that Qurratu'l-'Ayn, the prisoner, radiated such love, greatness, power and majesty to everyone there that all, both ladies and maids, became so devoted to her that they would have given their lives for her.
Some years later, the Princess, Hájí Khánum, heard that one of the sons of Mírzá Burzurg, Minister of Persia and the father of Bahá'u'lláh, had become the leader of the Bábí Movement, but she did not know which of the sons this was.  She questioned a friend who, misinformed herself, told her that Mírzá Yahyá Azal was the one.
For ten years the Princess waited, constantly expecting this son of Mírzá Burzurg to take the place of the Báb and very eager to see him.  At last she started forth on a pilgrimage to Karbilá and on the way arrived in Baghdád.  Here she made inquiries for Mírzá Yahyá Azal and was shown his home.
She sent a friend with an invitation to
page 361
him, saying, "I wish to talk with you for about an hour."
When Mírzá Yahyá heard the name of the Princess he was frightened and said, "This Lady is of the Royal Family and will cause us trouble.  Do not inform her and do not let her come here to me."
When this was repeated to the Princess she was astonished, and said, "If this man is the right one, the true one, then how is it that he does not know of my longing and my love for the Cause?"
Again she sent a message to him, saying, "If you are afraid that I will betray you then send some one to burn the tip of my tongue or to cut my tongue so that I will not be able to speak.  I want only to see you for a little while as you are from God."
This answer made Mírzá Yahyá still more afraid, and he said, "Do not let her come here at all."
The Princess became angry at this answer and she decided to return to Persia and to re-convert to their old beliefs those whom she had taught.
Suddenly, one of the servants of Bahá'u'lláh came to her, and said, "Do not be depressed and sad.  The light, the truth is somewhere else.  The one whom you seek is the brother of Azal, and he has sent me here to invite you to come and see him tomorrow."
The Princess now became very happy, and she spent the whole night in prayer, weeping and waiting for the day.  She reasoned with herself, saying, "Suppose, tomorrow, I go, and am not able to ask the questions which distress me!  I had better write them down."
So she wrote all her questions on a piece of paper which she put under her pillow, in order to be ready to ask them the next day.
Early in the morning the servant of Bahá'u'lláh came to her, and said, "Bahá'u'lláh invites you to come, and to bring your questions with you."
She was amazed, and she thought, "Who has told Bahá'u'lláh that I have questions!"
Constantly she said to herself, "This one is the true one, and not Azal."
In an entirely new frame of mind, she went to the home of Bahá'u'lláh, taking her questions with her.  When she arrived Bahá'u'lláh was walking up and down inside the house.  The moment she saw him, the Blessed One, she fell upon her knees.
Bahá'u'lláh came forward and raised her up, encouraging her, and saying, "Do not be troubled; all is well."  Then she wept for joy, and unhesitatingly she accepted his Reality, saying, even, "Thou art God."
He answered, "No, God forbid.  God is far beyond being in a body."
She said, "If you are not God then who told you that I am depressed and that I was going back to Persia and that I have questions to ask."
He said, "Nay, I am not God, but God told me of these things."
Before she looked at her questions, he began to answer those very questions which she had written down.
This story was recorded by the Princess herself, in her own hand-writing, and the book is in my possession.
After a time, she left, but Bahá'u'lláh promised her that she should see him again.  She hoped to meet Bahá'u'lláh in Adrianople, but was unable to do so.  At last, after ten years, she saw him in 'Akká.  She sold all her property in order to secure the money for the journey, and married a man quite outside her own social station, that she might be able to go to 'Akká to see Bahá'u'lláh.
In the East, if a Princess marries a merchant it is considered an extraordinary thing, for she forfeits her rank.  But this Princess was so devoted to the Cause that she married Hájí Sádiq Káshání, a Bahá'í, and out of her own funds she paid their travelling expenses to 'Akká.


XIV:12, March 1924
page 365
When a soul meets the Master
Fred Mortensen
In my youth my environment was not of the best and being around boys of hard character I guess I determined to be as tough as any, which I very easily did, though inwardly I always had a feeling to be above it all.  Still I always felt that I should do in Rome as the Romans do.  So I violated any law I saw fit, man's or God's.  Strange as it seems to me at times, it was through coming into contact with these laws that I received the opportunity to be guided into this most wonderful Revelation.
My dear mother had done everything in her power to make me a good boy.  I have but the deepest love for her and my heart has often been sad when thinking how she must have worried for my safety as well as for my future well-being.  Through it all and in a most wonderful way, with a god-like patience, she hoped and prayed that her boy would find the road which leadeth to righteousness and happiness.  But environment proved a great barrier to her aspirations and every day in every way I became tougher and tougher.  Fighting was a real pleasure, as welcome as a meal, and breaking a grocer's window to steal his fruit or what-not was, as I thought, a great joke.
It happened that one night the "gang" was strolling along, just doing nothing in particular (looking for trouble I guess), when one of the gang said, "Oh look at the swell bunch of bananas."  "Gee, I wished I had some," another said.  "Do you?" said I.  About this time I heard a dog barking inside the store, and looking in, I saw a large bulldog.  That seemed to aggravate me and, to show my contempt for the watch-dog, I guess, I broke the window, took the bananas, passed them around and we merrily strolled up the street and I suppose would have sung the song, "Yes, we have bananas", if it had been out at that time.
Making the Jews feel that they were back in Russia was lots of fun.  I can't begin to tell you how we enjoyed persecuting them, stealing their wine; breaking their windows, in fact doing everything but setting fire to their homes.  I
page 366
plainly remember that it cost me sixteen dollars to pay for broken windows, to keep out of jail.
The great evil that did so much to make us hard, was the saloon with its attendant evils.  My! how tough I have seen fine young fellows become under the influence of liquor.  I could tell you many things of a lawless nature, but I write of these few to show what the power of Bahá'u'lláh can do in this day.
I was a fugitive for four years, having walked out of jail while awaiting trial.  Then a young fellow was being arrested and I, of course, tried to take him away from the policeman.  While this was going on a couple of detectives happened along and in my haste to get away from them I leaped over a thirty-five foot wall, breaking my leg, to escape the bullets whizzing around about-and wound up in the "garden at the feet of the Beloved" as Bahá'u'lláh has so beautifully written it in the Seven Valleys.
At this time I was defended by our departed, but illustrious Bahá'í brother, Albert Hall, to whom I owe many thanks and my everlasting good will for helping to free me from the prison of men and of self.  It was he who brought me from out the dark prison house; it was he who told me, hour after hour, about the great love of 'Abdu'l-Bahá for all his children and that he was here to help us show that love for our fellowmen.  Honestly, I often wondered then what Mr Hall meant when he talked so much about love, God's love, Bahá'u'lláh's love, 'Abdu'l-Bahá's love, love for the Covenant, love for us, from us to God, to His Prophets, etc.  I was bewildered.  Still, I returned, to become more bewildered, so I thought; and I wondered why.  It was, as I now know, the power of the Holy Spirit drawing one, who wished to be drawn.
Thus the Word of God gave me a new birth, made me a living soul, a revivified spirit.  I am positive that nothing else upon earth could have changed my character as mine has been changed.  I am indeed a new being, changed by the power of the Holy Spirit as manifested through the breaths of God's Chosen Ones in this day.  I have been resurrected and made alive in the Kingdom of Abhá.
Again through the attraction of the Holy Spirit I was urged, so it seemed to me, to go to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  He was at Green Acre, Maine, at this time, and when I heard the rumour that he might go back to his home (Palestine) and not come west, I immediately determined to go and see him.  I wasn't going to miss meeting 'Abdu'l-Bahá after waiting so long to see him.
So I left home, going to Cleveland, where I attended a convention of printers for a few days.  But I became so restless I could not stay for adjournment.  How often I have thought about that trip of mine from Cleveland to Green Acre!  The night before leaving Cleveland I had a dream that I was 'Abdu'l-Bahá's guest, that I sat at a long table, and many others were there, too, and of how he walked up and down telling stories, emphasizing with his hand.  This, later, was fulfilled and he looked just as I saw him in Cleveland.
As my finances were low I of necessity must hobo my way to Green Acre.  The Nickel Plate Railway was my choice, for conveyance to Buffalo, New York.  From Buffalo I again rode the rods to Boston, a long ride from around midnight until nine next morning.  The Boston and Maine Railway was the last link between 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the outside world so it seemed to me, and when I crawled off from the top of one of its passenger trains at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, I was exceedingly happy.  A boat ride, a street car ride, and there I was, at the gate of Paradise.  My heart beating double time, I stepped onto the soil of that to-be-famous centre, tired, dirty, and wondering, but happy.
I had a letter of introduction from Mr Hall to Mr Lunt, and in searching for
page 367
him I met Mrs Edward Kinney, who, dear soul, was kind enough to offer me a bed.  She awakened me next morning about six o'clock, saying I'd have to hurry if I wished to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
Arriving at the hotel I found quite a number of people there, on the same mission, to see 'Abdu'l-Bahá.  Being one of the last arrivals, I was looking around, to make myself comfortable, when someone exclaimed, "Here he comes now."  Ahmad Sohráb did the introducing and interpreting.  When Ahmad introduced me to him, to my astonishment he looked at me and only said, "Ugh!  Ugh!" not offering to shake hands with me.  Coming as I had, and feeling as I did, I was very much embarrassed.  After greeting several others and when about to go to his room, he suddenly turned to me and said in a gruff voice (at least I thought so), "Sit down," and pointed to a chair-which I didn't care to do, as elderly ladies were standing.  But what was I to do!  I meekly obeyed, feeling rebellious over what had happened.  Such a welcome, after making that difficult trip!  My mind sure was in a whirl.
The first man to receive an interview with 'Abdu'l-Bahá was a doctor; he had written a book on love.  It seemed but a minute until Ahmad came down and said, "'Abdu'l-Bahá wishes to see Mr Mortensen."  Why, I nearly wilted.  I wasn't ready.  I hadn't expected to be called until the very last thing.  I had to go, and it was with a strange feeling in my heart and wondering, wondering what would happen next.  He welcomed me with a smile and a warm hand-clasp, telling me to be seated, he sitting before me.  His first words were, "Welcome!  Welcome!  You are very welcome,"-then, "Are you happy?"-which was repeated three times.  I thought, why do you ask me that so many times?  Of course I am happy; didn't I tell you so the first time?
Then, "Where did you come from?"
Answer:  "From Minneapolis."
Question:  "Do you know Mr Hall?"
Answer:  "Yes.  He told me about the Cause."
Question:  "Did you have a pleasant journey?"
Of all the questions I wished to avoid this was the one!  I dropped my gaze to the floor-and again he put the question.  I lifted my eyes to his and his were as two black, sparkling jewels, which seemed to look into my very depths.  I knew he knew and I must tell, and as I answered I wondered what Ahmad thought-if I was a little unbalanced.
I answered:  "I did not come as people generally do, who come to see you."
Question:  "How did you come?"
Answer:  "Riding under and on top of the railway trains."
Question:  "Explain how."
Now as I looked into the eyes of 'Abdu'l-Bahá I saw they had changed and a wondrous light seemed to pour out.  It was the light of love and I felt relieved and very much happier.  I explained to him how I rode on the trains, after which he kissed both my cheeks, gave me much fruit, and kissed the dirty hat I wore, which had become soiled on my trip to see him.
When he was ready to leave Green Acre I stood nearby to say goodbye, and to my astonishment he ordered me to get into the automobile with him.  After a week with him at Malden, Massachusetts, I left for home with never-to-be forgotten memories of a wonderful event-the meeting of God's Covenant, The Branch of that Pre-Existent Root; that wonderful Moon that shall shine as the Sun, as the light of seven days and to whom all shall bow and praise His Holy Name.
A few weeks later I again had that wonderful privilege to be near the Covenant for a few moments.
These events are engraved upon the tablet of my heart and I love every moment of them.  The words of Bahá'u'lláh are my food, my drink and my life.  I have no other aim than to be of service in his pathway and to be obedient to his Covenant.
This is the Power of his Spirit, his love and his mercy to me.


XIV:12, March 1924
page 370
The preservation of Divine guidance
When the divine Manifestation of God leaves the world how will the purity of his teachings and the unity of his Cause be preserved?
Because this question has not been explicitly answered in any of the religions of the past, there have arisen innumerable sects, due to misinterpretations of the teachings and to the ambitions of self-seeking leaders.
In the supreme plan which Bahá'u'lláh has revealed for the establishment of religious unity in this Latter Day, the divine word promises that God will in the future raise up a glorious succession of "temples of unity" who will preserve the purity of his teachings and the unity of His Cause.  These "temples of unity" will be descended from the temple of the Manifestation, "to speak in the Kingdom of creation of their Lord, The Supreme, The All-Glorious, and be of those who obtain light by the light of their Lord. ...  Verily we have ordained this Temple (the body of the Manifestation) the beginning of the existence of the new creation, that each one may become convinced that I am indeed able to do what I wish, by merely saying, 'Be', and it is.  By the shadow of each letter of the letters of this Temple, We will send forth people whose number is not known to any save God, the Protector, the Self-Existent; and from it (the Temple) God shall create certain people who will not be veiled by the illusions of those who acted wrongfully against God, and they will drink, at all times, the pure water of life:  Verily are not they of those who are successful? ... in their faces the brightness of the Merciful is manifested, and from their hearts the mention of My Hidden and Mighty Name is heard. ...  God hath preferred them to all creation, but indeed the people do not know.  They move around the Command of God just as the shadow moveth around the sun ...
page 371
by the movement of these people all things will move, and by their quiescence all things will rest. ...  through them the earth was stationed, and the clouds gave out rain, and the table of Knowledge descended from the Heaven of Bounty-were ye of those who understand.  These people are the keepers of the Command of God on earth, protecting its beauty against the dust of surmise and suspicion."62
In past history, also, we have had a succession of guardians of the Covenant.  For instance, Abraham revealed the Covenant of his day; his descendants, Isaac, Jacob and the gracious Joseph guarded the covenant.  The Hebrew prophets, Elijah, Amos, Isaiah and the rest came in succession, with the voice of authority, to guard the commands of God.  God said to Jeremiah that through him (Jeremiah) was determined the station of the nations.  Through Jeremiah He poured the life of the world.  He made Jeremiah the spiritual heart of humanity.63  Yet his countrymen put Jeremiah in prison and did not recognize his divine station for nearly a hundred years-until his prophecies of the return from the Babylonian captivity to Jerusalem were fulfilled.64  So it is through religious history; the people do not recognize their Guardian, they do not know where the divine voice is speaking, and so they crucify the Prophet whom God sends to save them.
In this radiant day of unity God is sending His Guardians in the family of His Manifestations, in lineal descent, that all may know them and be blessed and protected by them.  In this day, as Isaiah prophesied, "Thy teachers" shall not "be hidden any more but thine eyes shall see thy teachers."65  'Abdu'l-Bahá took a covenant with his disciples in his last Will and Testament that all shall follow and obey the guidance of God as it speaks through the Guardians of his Cause, and the Universal Spiritual Assembly of which they shall be the life-long head, for both are "under the unerring guidance of His Holiness the Exalted One".
So a new firmness in the Covenant becomes manifest since the ascension of the Master.  Those who love and follow the dayspring of Divine Guidance as it speaks through the pure and selfless spirit and pen of the Guardian of the Cause revealed by 'Abdu'l-Bahá-they are of those who are successful.
[end of Book 8 (Vol. XIII, Nos 9-12; and Vol. XIV, Nos 1-12)]
1	The first volume was titled Bahá'í News.
1	Refer to The Bahá'í World, Vol. I, pp. 19-31.
1	Facsimile of the message is on XIII:10, p. 265.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paras 123, 124, and 126, pp. 63-64.
1	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 30, p. 29.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Some Answered Questions, p. 64.
3	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, pp. 151-152.
4	Star of the West, II:15, p. 5.
5	Star of the West, XI:9, p. 68.
6	Star of the West, XI:9, p. 71.
7	Star of the West, V:11, p. 165.
1	Star of the West, VII:9, page 84.
2	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, p. 409.
3	Star of the West, III:4, p. 29.
4	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 388.
5	Most of the quotation is in Star of the West, VI:17, p. 137.
6	'Abdu'l-Bahá quoted by Shoghi Effendi:  Bahá'í Administration, p. 21.
7	'Abdu'l-Bahá quoted by Shoghi Effendi:  Bahá'í Administration, pp. 21-22.
1	Bahá'u'lláh quoted by 'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, p. 434.
1	Ratiocinate:  to think or argue logically; to reason.
1	These selections are taken from compilations made by Mrs Brittingham and Mrs Mary M. Rabb.
1	Báb quoted by Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 141.
2	Solvent:  something that solves or explains; solution.
3	Sentence meaning unclear.
4	Imbrute:  to make or become brutal.
5	Ruth:  [now rare]-1.  pity; compassion or 2.  sorrow; grief; remorse.
6	World War I.
7	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 64-65.
8	Muftí:  The religious head of a Muslim community.
9	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 164-165.
10	All quotations are from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá unless otherwise indicated.  Quotations located in the Writings are used and individually referenced.
11	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 166.
12	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 12.
13	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Paris Talks, p. 176. (Two paragraphs.)
14	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Bahá'í World Faith, p. 375.
15	Refer to compilation on Prayer (Chapter IV of The Divine Art of Living) in Star of the West, VIII:4.
16	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 187.
17	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 121, p. 63.
18	Details in this article should be confirmed by checking authoritative sources.-M.W.T.
19	Bahá'u'lláh:  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 11-12.
20	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 72.
21	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Hidden Words, Persian No. 73.
22	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 165.
23	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 107-108.
24	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 209.
25	'Abdu'l-Bahá to Mrs Helen S. Goodall and others, New York City, 1912.
26	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, III:14, p. 9.
27	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 322-323.  Refer also to The Star of the West, III:15, p. 7.
28	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 125, pp. 63-64.
29	Breasted-Ancient Times.
30	"Mullá:  A Muslim priest.  Háj:  One who has made the pilgrimage to Mecca.  Siyyid:  A direct descendent of Muhammad.
31	For fuller details of the life of Qurratu'l-'Ayn, see Star of the West, XIV:5, pp. 138-143, and for the manifestation of the Báb, Star of the West, XIV:7, pp. 193-202.
32	These new teachings are enumerated in 'Abdu'l-Bahá's addresses in Divine Philosophy, p. 51 (1st edition); in the Star of the West, VIII:2 p. 31.
33	Star of the West, XI:1, pp. 10-11.
34	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 467.
35	From diary letter of Mírzá Ahmad Sohráb, 11 October, 1913.
36	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 467.
37	From a Tablet to Mrs E. G. Cooper, 1916.
38	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  From the diary of Mírzá Mahmúd, 30 October 1912.
39	From notes sent to America by Mr Fugeta.
40	Star of the West, XI:1, pp. 10-11.
41	"See article on the Báb, in the Star of the West, XIV:7, pp. 193-202.
42	Hosea 2:15.
43	At another time.
44	Behold He Cometh, The Book Stall.  New York.
45	ibid.
46	ibid.
47	Dark, gloomy.
48	Bahá'u'lláh:  The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 3.
49	All quotations in this article are from the words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá.
50	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 68-69.
51	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 114.
52	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Selections from the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 306.
53	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 64-65.
54	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 65.
55	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, V:8, p. 116.
56	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, V:8, pp. 115-116.
57	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, V:8, p. 117.
58	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Star of the West, X:3, p. 39.
59	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  The Foundations of World Unity, p. 43.
60	'Abdu'l-Bahá:  Japan Will Turn Ablaze, p. 36. [Last three paragraphs.]
61	The Mayor, or Governor.  See Life of Qurratu'l-'Ayn, Star of the West, XIV:5, pp. 138-143.
62	Bahá'u'lláh:  From Súriy-i-Haykal, pp. 13-14; Bahai Scriptures, p. 212.
63	Jeremiah 1:7ff.  Also 'Abdu'l-Fadl, Star of West, X:7, p. 116.
64	See the celebrated prophecy of the return after 70 years, Jeremiah 25:10-11; 29:10.
65	Isaiah 30:20.  See also Isaiah 30:26; 60:20.
