




	26 August 2003




Transmitted by email  
The National Spiritual Assembly
    of the Bahá’ís of …
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
     The Universal House of Justice has received your email letter of 15 April 2003 inquiring about the process by which the Regional Bahá’í Councils are to gradually assume a growing share of the responsibility for the work of the Faith in their respective territories.  You refer specifically to the functions described in the 30 May 1997 statement regarding Regional Councils and your study of the document with Counsellor … and the members of the seven Councils in ….  In the meantime, the House of Justice was pleased to receive your email letter dated 28 July 2003 regarding the series of meetings held across the country with the aim of drawing up realistic plans of action for each region for the period of June 2003 to April 2004.  We are directed to write to you as follows.
     
     It is clear that you are giving careful thought to developing the institutional capacity of the Regional Councils in ….  The House of Justice does not wish to offer you any specific advice on this particular matter at present, beyond encouraging you to support the Councils in their efforts to promote the growth of the Faith in the seven priority clusters selected in …, one in each region.  This should remain their primary focus of attention for some time to come. 
     
     Meeting the challenge of fostering such growth will depend on the establishment and effective functioning of certain administrative mechanisms at the level of the cluster.  It will require, on the one hand, an individual believer named by the institute in each priority cluster who would act as a coordinator, responsible for ensuring that the number of study circles, children’s classes, and junior youth groups steadily multiplies.  On the other hand, it will call for the formation of some kind of cluster-level committee with a capable secretary in charge of promoting the gradual increase in devotional meetings, arranging for systematic visits to the homes of newly enrolled believers, holding periodic reflection meetings, collecting vital statistics and encouraging the development of the Nineteen Day Feast and the strengthening of the Local Spiritual Assembly in each locality, with the help of the Auxiliary Board members and their assistants. 
     
     You should be confident that, by paying close attention to the needs of the community at the level of the cluster in this way, the Regional Councils in … will acquire the institutional capacity so longed for and the administrative structures they require for the proper 

Supervision of the progress of growth in their regions will emerge.  We assure you of the prayers of the House of Justice in the Holy Shrines for the advance of the Cause of God in your country.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat
cc:International Teaching Centre
Board of Counsellors in …
Counsellor …
The National Spiritual Assembly
    of the Bahá’ís of …26 August 2003
Page 2




