[COPY] 


4 December 2007 

Transmitted by email: … 

The National Spiritual Assembly 
of the Bahá’ís of … 

Dear Bahá’í Friends, 

Your email letter of 21 June 2005, concerning the participation of non-Bahá’í spouses in 
the Nineteen Day Feast when the Feast is held in their homes, has been received by the Universal 
House of Justice, and we have been asked to reply as follows. The delay in responding to your 
letter is very much regretted. 

Concerning your request for a copy of a letter written previously on behalf of the House of 
Justice that you believe may have stated that non-Bahá’í spouses can participate in the Nineteen 
Day Feast without restriction when it is held in their homes, no record has been found of such a 
letter at the Bahá’í World Centre. 

As you are no doubt aware, the Nineteen Day Feast is an institution, a portion of which 
is intended to address certain internal, administrative requirements of the community. For this 
reason, participation is limited to members of the Bahá’í community, and the believers are 
discouraged from inviting those who are not Bahá’ís. Of course, if non-Bahá’ís do appear, they 
are not to be turned away. Courtesy and the spirit of friendliness require that these visitors be 
warmly welcomed. They may freely participate in the spiritual and social portions of the Feast, 
while the administrative portion can be modified to accommodate their attendance. The sharing 
of local and national news and information about social events, as well as consultation on topics 
of general interest, such as expansion and the multiplication of core activities, service projects, 
the fund, and so on, can continue as usual, while discussion of sensitive or problematic issues 
can be set aside for another occasion when the friends can express themselves freely without 
being inhibited by the presence of guests. 

A similar approach to the administrative portion may be adopted when a family with 
members who are not Bahá’ís hosts a Feast. Wisdom is required in order to apply the requisites 
of hospitality and love, on the one hand, and those of confidentiality and unfettered discussion on 
important topics, on the other. The Local Spiritual Assembly, in consultation with the believers 
who have non-Bahá’í relatives, should endeavour to find a satisfactory way to resolve each 
situation that arises. 

With loving Bahá’í greetings, 

Department of the Secretariat 


