PILGRIMS NOTES: ALICE DUDLEY - APRIL 1957

       NOTE: WITH REFERENCE TO PILGRIM'S NOTES IT IS IMPORTANT TO KEEP THEIR STATUS
       IN MIND. AS AN AID TO THAT I OFFER THE FOLLOWING REFERENCES. rhh.

       - Lights of Guidance; A Baha'i Reference File, Helen Hornby, Page 327.

       "858. Privilege of Friends to Share Results of These Visits
       "Regarding the notes taken by pilgrims at Haifa. The Guardian has stated that
       he is unwilling to sign the notes of any pilgrim, in order that the
       literature cosulted by the believers shall not be unduly extended... This
       means that the notes of pilgrims do not carry the authority resident in the
       Guardian's letters witten over his own signature. On the other hand each
       pilgrim brings back information and suggestions of a most precious character,
       and it is the privilege of all the friends to share in the spiritual results
       of these visits." (From letter written on behalf of the Guardian to the
       National Spiritual Assembly of the United States: Baha'i News, No. 281, p.
       4, July 1954)"

       - Lights of Guidance; A Baha'i Reference File, Helen Hornby, Page 363.

       "972. Stories About 'Abdu'l-Baha
       "He would also urge you to attach no importance to the stories told about
       'Abdu'l-Baha or to those attributed to Him by the friends. These should be
       regarded in the same light as the notes and impressions of visiting pilgrims.
       They need not be suppressed, but they also should not be given prominence or
       official recognition." (From letter written on behalf of the Guardian to an
       individual believer: Baha'i News, No. 96, December 1935, p.1)"

       - From the covering page of Volume One of "HAIFA NOTES", BOLD emphasis added
       by me. rhh.

       "HAIFA NOTES OF Shoghi Effendi's Words
       Taken at Pilgrim House during the Pilgrimage of Mrs. May Maxwell and Miss
       Mary Maxwell.
       January, February, March, 1937
       Volume 1.(The classifying under headings was done by me in order to keep the
       subjects often referred to together.) RR.
       1548 Pine Avenue
       Montreal, P Q, Canada
       Beloved Friends,
       It is a great privilege to share these notes with those Baha'is who have
       asked for them both for themselves and to share with other Baha'i friends. 
       It will greatly simplify our understanding of their status if we bear in mind
       that they are not the official statements of our blessed Guardian, that he
       has not sent them through the Administrative, official channel, but that
       inasmuch as he sanctions both their recording in his presence and subsquent
       sharing with other Baha'is, they are of priceless value being his free and
       spontaneous utterances to those Baha'is who are actually in his beloved
       presence. These notes taken by Ruhiyyih Khanum (then Miss Mary Maxwell) have
       the same status, in a vast field of subjects, as the notes of all others.
       Lovingly yours,
       May Maxwell"


***********************************************



       The following notes are based on table conversations of the beloved Guardian
       during the period April 15 thru 23, 1957. They are not verbatim and not in
       sequence but I verified them for accuracy after the Guardian had left the
       table with members of the Inter-National Council, Ruhiyyih Khanum and other
       pilgrims to be sure the intent was correct.--------- Alice Dudley 

       One of the characteristics of the Guardian is his amazing memory.  He has
       statistics of every kind pertaining to activities in all areas of the world
       at his fingertips and he quotes them constantly.  He is especially happy over
       the progress of the Faith in the Pacific area.   It surpasses even Africa now
       (April 1957).  The Beloved Guardian kept reiterating upon the goals which
       have been surpassed and the ones that lagged.

       The destiny of Israel is to become a Baha'i state.  They will support the
       International Institutions of the Faith. World opinion is pro-Arab but in
       time it will become pro-Israeli.  The Jews have suffered long enough; their
       reward is to become a Baha'i state.

       The decline of Islam is beginning -- they will be punished for their
       treatment of the Bab and Baha'u'llah. 

       One evening the Guardian began speaking about the coming calamities.  He was
       very emphatic and after he left, Ruhiyyih Khanum and the members of the
       International Council stated they had never heard him speak with so much
       force or so decisively.  He said the coming calamity would be worse than war. 
       Cities would evaporate; especially the cities where it is hardest to teach
       the Faith, such as New York, Chicago, and San Francisco.  People would lose
       all their possessions and homes over night -- they would simply evaporate. 
       Americans would become refugees to other continents.  The US would suffer
       greatly, he said, and so would Russia.  He said both were materialistic -
       capitalism which is purely materialistic and communism which controls the
       proletariat. 

       The coming calamity would be retribution.  Abdu'l-Baha went to the US to
       specifically awaken the nation to its dangers. His mission was a failure -
       both from the standpoint of the Baha'is and the Americans.  This can be
       discerned by reading between the lines of His addresses in America.  The
       Faith will be spread by the dark-skinned races, the  so-called uncivilized
       peoples. 

       The Baha'is are going through a transitional period in the US, and they will
       be in a position of spectators in the spread of the Faith in comparison with
       the spread of the Faith in Africa and among the yellow-skinned races. 

       The Guardian stated that the US was chosen the cradle of the World Order
       (Admin. Order) not because of its spiritual qualities but because of its
       corruption; the same as Persia was chosen for the Revelation of Baha'u'llah
       because they, the Persians, were worse than the African savages - far more
       barbaric. 
        
       After the coming calamity, the US will fulfill the prophecy of Abdu'l Baha
       that the US would lead all nations because of its suffering. 
          
       The Guardian said that he had given up warning the friends because they paid
       no heed to him.  Furthermore, that this calamity had been destined. The
       Guardian stated Abdu'l-Baha warned the friends too, but they  were heedless. 
       It is too late to save the world.  The message of Baha'u'llah has been in the
       world for over 100 years and has been rejected.  The calamity will be sudden. 
       He spoke of our statesmen from the president down; all were helpless and
       impotent.  Also stated that we were not an altruistic nation, we were only
       helping other countries to save ourselves.  Said the submarines built by
       Russia will paralyze the United Kingdom, Western Europe, the Mediterranean
       and Atlantic and Pacific seaboards.  He stated that the US did not wish to
       coalesce with other nations - only to protect herself.  Baha'is have failed
       with the Negro race in the US, there should be more intermarriage.  Speaking
       of love - the Americans love money, their wives, their houses, their
       possessions, their friends.  Just as there is a decline in the value of the
       American dollar, there is also a decline in their morals and home life. 

       He spoke of the Baha'i Newsletter; said it was the most un-inspiring organ.
       It contained only agenda and programs. It is now an international bulletin,
       but does not present news in an interesting way.  Also spoke of the large
       deficit of the  fund.   (Jessie Revell said we should give every month; the
       size of the contribution has nothing to do with it.  One contribution to the
       international fund recently was for $1.35.) 

       The Guardian said the calamity would happen before the lesser peace.  He said
       Baha'is in America could not only leave their homes, but should go as far
       away as possible. Victories come only from sacrifice and self-abnegation. 
       The greater the sacrifice, the greater the victories. Baha'is should lower
       their standards of living in order to give more. 

       I asked the Guardian if the calamity could be averted.  He replied "No."  I
       asked if it would be all of North America and he said mainly the US. 

       One of the pilgrims asked the Guardian if he thought there would be
       interplanetary travel and he replied, "Yes, perhaps not the entire universe,
       but to the nearest planets."   She also asked what employees of the American
       Army should do in case of alert, as they would be evacuated. He said if their
       jobs interfered with their remaining at their posts, to  change jobs.

       One evening the Guardian mentioned that there had been 6,000 years of
       prophetic revelation to announce the coming of Baha'u'llah and to prepare
       the world for it - that there would be 500,000 years of revelation under His
       shadow.  He stated that world civilization will not be inaugurated before
       another revelation or prophet appears. 

       He continually stressed the goals of the Faith as outlined in "The Advent of
       Divine Justice" on page 12 - the five steps before it assumed its rightful
       place in the world.  The Guardian announced also that he has 19 new plans for
       teaching work in various portions of the globe. 

       The Guardian said that Dr. Esselmont and Dr. Townshend were the greatest
       Baha'i writers in the west - that Abdul Fazl was the greatest Baha'i writer
       in the East.  He thought that Townshend's book 'Christ and Baha'u'llah'
       exceeded Dr. Esselmont's book in greatness.  We must use Dr. Townshend's book
       because it portrays the Kingdom of God on Earth.  When the Kingdom of God has
       flowered, it will be the World Order of Baha'u'llah, and we will have its
       fairest fruits, World Civilization when the next prophet appears (in the
       500,000 year cycle).

       The Guardian said that unless the Home Fronts (US and England) improved, we
       may not have the Baghdad Conference. He said that all virgin areas far exceed
       their goals, but the home front lagged behind.  He showed us maps which he
       had made of the supplementary goals.  One map showed only the goals which had
       either exceeded original goals or victories which had not been even included
       in any of the plans. 

       One morning Leroy Ioas drove us to see the Temple site which is situated on
       the very top of Mt. Carmel about two miles from the Shrine of the Bab.  The
       site is shaped like a peninsula overlooking water on three sides.  The 
       Guardian said the Shrine of the Bab is the heart of Carmel and the Temple
       will be the head.  The Guardian said Baha'u'llah stood on this site and 
       revealed the Tablet of Carmel, with such loud ringing tones that the nuns in
       the Carmelite nunnery situated further below could hear Him.  This site is
       also near the cave of Elijah. 

       One evening I asked the Guardian about the reference in the Gleanings to the
       sister of Baha'u'llah.  He replied that some of the half-sisters of
       Baha'u'llah were loyal to Him and some disloyal.  She was a loyal sister. 

       The Guardian stressed many times that there has not been a Christian
       Civilization for centuries - only a materialistic civilization.
