Dear Thellie,

<< What I still want to know is *how* does Dr. Falisheer have the book's 
comments in her 71-page-notes, now housed in Haifa, from which the Sonne der 
Wahrheit was printed? Could it be quoting from "Geschichte der Philosophie 
im Islam" maybe with the sources not mentioned, maybe with sources mentioned? 
Sources were often not mentioned, or is it unmistakably plagiarism? Could 
have quotes, included in her 71-page-notes, gotten printed incorrectly in 
Sonne der Wahrheit as attributed to herself, whereas she had merely been 
quoting T. J. de Boer? Does she intentionally rearrange words to take credit 
for having heard the words herself as Moffet did?>>

Your questions are justified and I apologize for not giving more of the 
evidence. A little background on myself. I studied German as a requirement 
for my Ph.D exams and read de Boer's book to practice from. I don't have the 
71 page book from Haifa, but it seems unlikely that the editors of Sonne der 
Wahrheit would have neglected to include quotation marks or references to 
sources if these were in the original notes. In my opinion, unmistakable 
plagiarism was committed by Dr. Fallscheer. She does claim to be present at 
these talks and it is all presented as if coming from the mouth of 
'Abdu'l-Baha. For those who can read German, below is a cross reference guide 
for anyone who wants to verify that the following passages (most of the 19th 
and 20th letters) were largely drawn, in many cases verbatim, from T. J. de 
Boer's book.

Best regards, Keven Brown

S. der Wahrheit (1932) p. 40, "unter dem...Sasanidenfurst" to "Bewegung des 
Himmels" see Geschichte p. 15.
Ibid., p. 41, "Zum Beispiel lehrtern..." to "Koran geschaffen worden" see 
Geschichte p. 48.
Ibid. "Die Natur- und Vernunftreligion..." to "hingestellt wurde" see 
Geschichte p. 49.
Ibid. "Die Schopfung ist ein.." to "nach Al Nazzam -- Korper" see Geschichte 
pp. 51-52.
Ibid, p. 42, "dass Muhammad..." to "Menschheit habe" see Geschichte p. 52.
Ibid. "Sein Schuler Dschahiz..." to "einziges Verdienst" see Geschichte p. 53.
Ibid. "Unser Herr Muhammad..." to "kenntnisvermogen der Vernunft" see 
Geschichte pp. 42, 44.
Ibid. pp. 52-53. "Er verstehe Gott zu..." to "(und Christen) besitzen" see 
Geschichte p. 55.
Ibid. p. 53, "Eine vom Heiligen Buch..." to "von Ihm her" see Geschichte pp. 
55-56.
Ibid. "Die Natur ist nicht..." to "zeitlich-begrenzte Wesen Gottes" see 
Geschichte pp. 56-57.
Ibid. "aus Atomen..." to "nich in einander ein" see Geschichte p. 58.
Ibid. "Die Zeit stellt..." to "die Zeit weiter" see Geschichte pp. 58-59.
Ibid. p. 54, "Die tausendjahrige" to "5. Die absolute Zeit" see Geschichte 
pp. 73-74.
Ibid. "Daher verwirft..." to "Unsere Vernunft ist Licht vom Lichte Gottes" 
see Geschichte p. 75.





Dear Thellie, 

<< I wonder if you could tell us the nature of this book "Geschichte der 
Philosophie im Islam"? Does, for instance, de Boer speak of the Master? So 
that Fallcsheer says she heard the Master say things that actually someone 
else reported Him to have said? Or is she saying the Master said things that 
someone else, entirely, was to have said and altering words to make them fit 
her purpose? (The second of which, is vastly more sinful and vastly more 
deceptive.)>>

"Geschichte der Philosophie im Islam" is simply what the title says, A 
History of Philosophy in Islam. It gives brief accounts of the ideas of 
significant Muslim thinkers, including both philosophers and theologians of 
the Kalam. de Boer makes no mention of 'Abdu'l-Baha. His work is one of the 
earliest (1901) works on Islamic philosophy by a Westerner that is still 
considered somewhat of a classic today in academic circles. As I said before, 
it is clear that plagiarism has taken place; it is only not clear what the 
motives of Fallscheer were and whether what she plagiarized from de Boer was 
connected to anything 'Abdu'l-Baha actually said or not. Personally, I think 
not or else she would have recorded 'Abdu'l-Baha's own words. The safest is 
to ignore the Fallscheer letters as unreliable and the author as an 
untrustworthy source.

<<When I first found other people's notes in Moffet's notes, it surely 
raised my eyebrows. But when I found she had altered their words, altering 
the meaning, all the while claiming these altered words were the very words 
of the Guardian, at the same time, claiming her notes had been reviewed and 
corrected while in Haifa, I condemned the notes.>>

<<Likewise, I have found, she has committed the same degree of deception in 
her published work. In "Keys to the New Revelation", for example, she has 
taken words and ideas of Shahnaz Waite and said they were taken from a Tablet 
of 'Abdu'l-Baha *to* Shahnaz Waite. I believe this book is still available 
for purchase, yet it should not be. It should be condemned.>>

This is news to me. I didn't know, though I suspected, that something was not 
kosher with Ruth Moffett's notes. This makes it even clearer the wisdom of 
not relying upon Pilgrim's notes. Thanks for sharing this information.

Best regards, Keven






