Haifa Notes, 

Paine

	There is to be another war.  This will involve the whole world.  This is necessary because a new political structure is needed and cannot me erected until the old structure is destroyed.  The nations are not yet ready to give up their sovereignty.  England is not more ready than the United States to relinquish her sovereignty in favor of the League of Nations.  Shoghi Effendi does not see any immediate prospect of  war.

	President Wilson gained the ideas for his 14 points from the Baha'i writings, but did not advance to the point of accepting the Cause.  He was right in trying to lead the United States into the League.  The US must give up it's policy of isolation.  Wilson saw this was hindered by politicians, Abd'ul-Baha said that Wilson's work was the dawn of peace and Baha'u'llah's ascendancy would prove to be the rising sun.  Baha'is must show their admiration for Wilson and his ideals though such ideals are now unpopular, but we should be loyal to it.

	The Mandates Commission of the League of Nations has recommended to England expropriation of the Baghdad property.  England has recommended the same to the government of Iraq.  They recommend destruction of the house on the property and making the land into a park.  This Shoghi Effendi deplores.

	Most of the Persian representatives in foreign capitols are against the Cause and misrepresent it.

	The Catholic Church is weak on the whole, but strong in America.  They have just received a heavy blow in Spain.  Abdul-Baha has said that eventually all the sects will scrap their differences in order to oppose the Baha'i Cause.

	A letter from Queen Marie explained how she was prevented from visiting the Holy Shrines and Shoghi Effendi and how she regretted it.  She wrote something for the Baha'i world which will be reproduced for a frontispiece.  Her sending this contribution to the Baha'i world will be an answer to those who say that she did not wish to visit the shrines.

	Baha'u'llah says that constitutional monarchy is the best form of government.  This does not mean necessarily that all governments will adopt this form, but probably there will be a tendency this way, especially as there seems already  a reaction from democracy.  Some pomp is necessary in order to impress people with the majesty of kingship, but England spends to much this way.

	The principle of obedience to a just government meets something of a problem in Russia, as some might say the Russian government is not a just government.  Shogi Effendi thinks this government should be obeyed, as the Russian people and most of the other governments recognize it.

	Russia and Germany have each a great future.  Russia will discard Sovietism.  In answer to a question as to whether it will be by gradual development or sudden change, he replied that there will be a destructive phase and new institutions will evolve.  Two disruptive forces are not at work, Sovietism (extreme left) and irreligion.  A reaction will come in favor of religion and against democracy.  The right catchword in regard to government is: "Government of the people, for the people, and by the best of the people."  The common people are not intelligent enough to make pure democracy successful.  England will soon see that the seeming victory of democracy is not lasting.  There will be  a reaction and labor will get in. all this will show a lack of stability in a popular electorate.  England has the most democratic government in the world; i.e. the government is most immediately responsible to the electorate.

	Baha'i organization is not very different in form from other organizations.  The difference is that Baha'is have the principle of loyalty in greater  degree then others.  They have the  principle spirit of faith, e.g., the Esperantists tried to spread Esperanto through the world.  They didn't succeed, but when the Master wrote one line to the Baha'is in Persia telling them to study Esperanto, not because it would be the universal language, but because it was a universal language, they studied it.

	The supposed quotation from Abdul-Baha that the Baha'i Cause is not an organization should be:  "You cannot limit the Baha'i Cause to an organization."  The Baha'i Cause must be organized, just as everything must be organized.  Institutions are necessary.  Most institutions are now decadent, but without institutions you have nothing but anarchy.  Baha'is should regard institutions not as ends, but as means.

	Baha'i government is neither purely democratic nor autocratic.  It is half way between.  The House of  Justice is neither purely democratic nor autocratic.  It is half way between.  The House of  Justice is not responsible to the electorate but to God...  The two state elections diminish the democratic element.  The Guardian cannot legislate.  He has only one vote in the House of Justice.  He interprets the Sacred Books.  The House of Justice is responsible to God and is inspired. How far this is applicable to the national and local bodies is not so clear.

	National committees should not dictate but should consult the desires and talents of individuals offering their services.

	The N.S.A. is in the peculiar position of being absolutely dependent on voluntary support of the believers.  Any appeal given out must be dignified.

	Local assemblies should advise believers in regard to private affairs, although Persia carries the custom to far.  To the question as to whether local assemblies should take up the private problems of an individual believer without being asked, he said probably not unless the matter was affecting the interests of the Cause.

	Baha'i literature cannot go into Persia.  It is kept out by the government.

	In each country the Baha'is have an especial problem.  In America it is racial.  The main thing is to show the Negro in social ways that we have no prejudice.  Make sure that the whole Baha'i group in a given place is unprejudiced.  Let them then determine their methods and policies.  Baha'is are not courageous enough in this matter.  Baha'is are really the only ones that have the ideals and sincerity.  Discrimination should not be exercised on the color lines, although it may be necessary on intellectual lines in such matters as appointing committees for Baha'i work

	World Unity was one of the divisive elements in the Cause which has passed away.  I asked if the failure of the experiment indicated that the indirect method of teaching should not be used.  He said that in some cases one had to be cautious and not use the Baha'i name, but generally it is better to use the name.

	Baha'is will have little to do with establishing the new world order. Of course, this fact should not prevent them from serving the Cause to the  utmost of their ability.  Unity among the Baha'is is much better than it was seven years ago.  The task they are now facing are teaching the Cause and building the Temple.  The new plan of Unified Action is good and practical.  The local and national assemblies are important as foundations of the new political order.  Obedience to the majority must be established.

	Soon there will be a chain of Baha'i centers between Constantinople and Paris connecting East and West.  Pilgrims to Haifa can visit these.  Sofia, Albania, Dresden and Vienna have believers.  The believers in Constantinople are timid about organizing.  He asked me especially to tell American friends about these places, so the pilgrims can plan to visit them.

	If a group of four American Baha'is go to Persia they should be a united working group.  There would be advantages for any individual who should go to Persia. He or she could master the language in about a year. A study of Nabil's Narrative will be advantageous to anyone going to Persia. A study of Persian in America is not practical now but eventually America will have to have a teacher of Persian.

	In reply to questions from a young person as to choosing a profession, Shoghi Effendi said that the Ideal is to give half one's time to the Cause and half to earning one's living. He advised a young person who wishes to help spreading the Baha'i teachings to master the Iqan and the Answered Questions. Select passages for memorizing so as to be able to quote without referring to books. Persian teachers do this. Someone spoke about memorizing whole tablets and Hidden Words. He said it was better to make selections for memorizing.

	It is all right to make use of outlines in studying the teachings, but one should not make a creed of what any one teacher gives out.

	Nabil's Narrative will make us more conversant with the early history than the Persians. Their knowledge is fragmentary. We should memorize the most important proper names in this book. It was written between 1890 and 1892. Baha'u'llah encouraged Nabil to write it and made some suggestions about the book.  Abdu'l-Baha revised certain passages.

	Prejudice will be overcome only through suffering.

	No religion is final, not even the Baha'i. In the Hidden Words, Baha'u'llah  says that in this revelation only two letters are given: B and H. This indicates further revelation. Progressive revelation is the basis of  Baha'i Teachings. Unity of mankind is the distinguishing feature of the Baha'i revelation.

	When asked whether he felt rested after his vacation he said that he came back rested, but already begins to get tired. He has worked very hard this fall. The Baha'i work is still highly centralized although the NSA's  have taken over much. He said that the amount of service rendered by the American Baha'is, particularly those on the NSA , was remarkable when we consider that these  Baha'is carry on their own individual profession too.
	
	Baha'is should understand that there is no interdiction of marriage with non believers. (In fact, such marriage with a non-believer might be good. The Baha'i may win his mate to be a believer.) But  Baha'is must claim the right of their religion; must be free to exercise their religion just as members of other religious bodies are. This is very difficult in the case of marriage with Catholics.

	The so called marriage tablet in the blue prayer book is probably only a report of a talk to an individual. The ceremony for a Baha'i marriage is in the Aqdas. When this is translated it will be required for all  Baha'is in addition to civil marriage. Also consent of both parents must be gained for a Baha'i marriage. This will make testing ground in the future. On points  like this, Baha'is will sooner or later have to take a firm stand as members of a separate religious body.

	In regard to keeping the fast in a family where some members are not Baha'is, He said that firmness, tact, and faith would enable one to do this. The fast is of such a short duration. If a doctor is consulted he should be one that both people have confidence in.

	When someone asked about prayer he said: " Pour out your hart to God freely and fully. Then do something. God cannot work through you unless you act. In case of illness consult an expert doctor."  One person said she prayed for a professor to become a Baha'i. He said to pray not only that a professor but other capable people become Baha'is, those who are in a position to attract  those who we cannot. Difficulties in a group will not be removed by prayer alone. All must rise to consult and act to remove difficulties.

	Directions about obligatory prayer are as reported by Mrs. True and Mrs. Moffett. The only obligatory group praying is a burial prayer which is not yet translated.

	The Baha'i idea of God is of a personal God, not an idea of God as a blind force. A personal God is a conscious God, but not an anthropomorphic God. This came out in a discussion of Dr.Forel and his relations to the Baha'i movement. Dr. Forel did not fully understand the Baha'i idea of God.

	Regarding someone who claimed to get messages form 'Abdu'l-Baha in the other world, Shogi Effendi said that she should not impose her supposed messages on anyone else. 'Abdu'l-Baha had said that most of such communications is imagination. Psychic experiences are an especial temptation to spiritual people, and if they gain strength this way and don't impose their communications on others, it is all right. They should be willing to admit, however, that about 80% of such supposed communication  is imagination. It is very hard to draw the line between psychic and spiritual. Psychic activities if carried to excess lead to bad health and insanity. The Tablet on psychic forces addressed to Anna Mason Hoar (SOW, Vol. 10, p.244) Shogi Effendi thinks is poorly translated, overstated. He would like to see the original. 

	Having teachers give all their time to the Cause is an exceptional occurrence. This one half time plan (of dividing one's time between service to the Cause and to one's profession) enables  one to observe both kinds of worship and tends to keep one balanced.

