Baha'u'llah, Qasídiy-i-Varqá'íyyih (Ode of the Dove)


Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By
=============================

	Amazed by the profundity of His insight and the compass of His understanding, they were impelled to seek from Him what they considered to be a conclusive and final evidence of the unique power and knowledge which He now appeared in their eyes to possess. "No one among the mystics, the wise, and the learned," they claimed, while requesting this further favor from Him, "has hitherto proved himself capable of writing a poem in a rhyme and meter identical with that of the longer of the two odes, entitled Qasidiy-i-Ta'iyyih composed by Ibn-i-Farid. We beg you to write for us a poem in that same meter and rhyme." This request was complied with, and no less than two thousand verses, in exactly the manner they had specified, were dictated by Him, out of which He selected one hundred and twenty-seven, which He permitted them to keep, deeming the subject matter of the rest premature and unsuitable to the needs of the times. It is these same one hundred and twenty-seven verses that constitute the Qasidiy-i-Varqa'iyyih, so familiar to, and widely circulated amongst, His Arabic speaking followers.

	Such was their reaction to this marvelous demonstration of the sagacity and genius of Baha'u'llah that they unanimously acknowledged every single verse of that poem to be endowed with a force, beauty and power far surpassing anything contained in either the major or minor odes composed by that celebrated poet. 

	This episode, by far the most outstanding among the events that transpired during the two years of Baha'u'llah's absence from Baghdad, immensely stimulated the interest with which an increasing number of the ulamas, the scholars, the shaykhs, the doctors, the holy men and princes who had congregated in the seminaries of Sulaymaniyyih and Karkuk, were now following His daily activities. Through His numerous discourses and epistles He disclosed new vistas to their eyes, resolved the perplexities that agitated their minds, unfolded the inner meaning of many hitherto obscure passages in the writings of various commentators, poets and theologians, of which they had remained unaware, and reconciled the seemingly contradictory assertions which abounded in these dissertations, poems and treatises.
	(Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 123 )

----------------

	Furthermore, in His Qasidiy-i-Varqa'iyyih, an ode revealed during the days of His retirement to the mountains of Kurdistan, in praise of the Maiden personifying the Spirit of God recently descended upon Him, He thus gives vent to the agonies of His sorrow-laden heart: "Noah's flood is but the measure of the tears I have shed, and Abraham's fire an ebullition of My soul. Jacob's grief is but a reflection of My sorrows, and Job's afflictions a fraction of my calamity." "Pour out patience upon Me, O My Lord!" -- such is His supplication in one of His prayers, "and render Me victorious over the transgressors." "In these days,"
	(Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 118 )



Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha'u'llah
==============================================

	If we remember that Baha'u'llah was a Persian and that He had not attended a school where the intricacies of the Arabic language were studied, this poem, from the literary point of view alone, stands out as a great testimony to His genius which was born of the Divine Spirit. The words He has used in this poem are very rich in their meanings and as they blend together, they produce a divine orchestra of spiritual melodies. With the use of only one or two words Baha'u'llah often makes reference to a verse of the Qur'an or a certain tradition of Islam. In this way, within a line He alludes to and welds together a series of passages from the Qur'an, revealing thereby the mysteries of God's Revelation. Each one of these verses is like an ocean created from many rivers flowing together, and hidden in their depths are innumerable pearls of wisdom and knowledge.

	After His return to Baghdad, Baha'u'llah wrote some footnotes to this poem; in these He gave the meanings in Persian of the difficult words and also interpreted some of its abstruse verses. In two or three instances He even pointed to His own apparent deviation from grammatical rules which, in the circumstances, He clearly justified.

	The theme of the Qasidiy-i-Varqa'iyyih is the praise and glorification of the Most Great Spirit which had descended upon Him in the symbolic form of the 'Maid of Heaven'. There is a dialogue between Himself as the Bearer of God's Message and the Holy Spirit personified as the Maid of Heaven, whose attributes and splendours He glorifies. For His own part, He dwells on His past sufferings, recounts the cruel fashion in which His enemies had imprisoned Him with chains and fetters, speaks of His grief and loneliness and resolutely affirms His determination to arise and face, with steadfastness and joy, any calamity which might in the future descend upon Him in the path of God.

	The poem demonstrates the relationship between the person of the Manifestation of God and the Holy Spirit which animates and sustains Him. It also throws light on the immensity of the spiritual domains of God from which all Revelations have been sent down.
	(Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha'u'llah v 1, p. 63 )

----------------

	No one previously had dared to compose such an ode in such a style as that of Ibnu'l-Farid.

	Thus, the fame of Darvish Muhammad-i-Irani began to reach areas beyond the confines of
	(H.M. Balyuzi, Baha'u'llah - The King of Glory, p. 118 )


----------------

	The Purest Branch had often paced up and down that roof chanting prayers and meditating. But on that fateful evening as he chanted the verses of the Qasidiy-i-Varqa'iyyih, one of Baha'u'llah's most moving poems revealed in Kurdistan,[1] he was carried away in a state of utter detachment and joy. As he paced along that familiar space wrapped in his customary meditations with his eyes closed, he fell through an open skylight on to an open crate Lying on the floor below.
	(Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha'u'llah v 3, p. 206 )

----------------

	Furthermore, in His Qasidiy-i-Varqa'iyyih, an ode revealed during the days of His retirement to the mountains of Kurdistan, in praise of the Maiden personifying the Spirit of God recently descended upon Him, He thus gives vent to the agonies of His sorrow-laden heart: "Noah's flood is but the measure of the tears I have shed, and Abraham's fire an ebullition of My soul. Jacob's grief is but a reflection of My sorrows, and Job's afflictions a fraction of my calamity." "Pour out patience upon Me, O My Lord!" -- such is His supplication in one of His prayers, "and render Me victorious over the transgressors."
	(Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 118 )

----------------

     'My grief exceedeth all the woes to which Jacob gave vent, and 
     all the afflictions of Job are but a part of My sorrows!'

 Baha'u'llah wrote His own Qasidiy-i-Varqa'iyyih in a rhyme and metre identical with the former, and He quotes this verse from Ibn-i-Farid in His Qasidih.
	(Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha'u'llah v 4, p. 390 )

----------------

   [The initial conversation between Nabil-i-A'zam and Aqa Buzurg (Badi')]

	...He asked the Haji whether he did not have a son old enough to assist him. Haji 'Abdu'l-Majid replied that he had, but his son did not obey him. Indeed, his son, Aqa Buzurg, a youth in his teens, led a wild life, was unruly, and took no interest at all in his father's preoccupations; in a word, he was the despair of his family. To see what followed, let Nabil, that inimitable narrator, tell us himself:

	'I said, "Send for him to come, I wish to see him." He was sent for and he came. I saw a tall, gangling youth, who, instead of physical perfections, had merely a simple heart, and I told his father to make him my host and leave his case to God . . . Then, I mentioned matters, very moving, which would melt a heart of stone.' Nabil-i-A'zam here quotes a number of verses from the long poem by Baha'u'llah - Qasidiy-i-'Izz-i-Varqa'iyyih, which he composed in Sulaymaniyyih. In these verses quoted by Nabil, Baha'u'llah speaks of His own sufferings and tribulations.

	'Hearing these divine themes, the colour of the visage of that youth reddened. his eves welled with tears, and the sound of his lamentation rose high. I calmed his agitation, but throughout that night, his enamourment and attraction kept sleep away from the eyes of Shaykh Muhammad and myself. Until the light broke we read and recited from the holy script. In the morning, when he prepared the samovar for tea, and went out to fetch milk, his father came and said: "I had never heard my son weep. I thought that nothing could move him. Now, what is the spell cast on him to make his tears flow and to cause him to cry out, to make him afire with the love of God?"
	(H.M. Balyuzi, Baha'u'llah - The King of Glory, p. 294 )

----------------






