Translation by Juan R.I. Cole


Baha'u'llah 
Ode of the Dove

In praise of the Beloved, secretly, in private.

     He is the Exalted, the All-Glorious.

     1. I was enthralled by light rays from a face 
     Whose advent dimmed and darkened every star,
     2. As though the sunbeams of Her beauty's glow
     appeared and dazzled planets from afar.
     3. Her joy diffused the musk of the unseen,
     Her stature raised the Spirit up above.
     4. The End-Time's Trump resounded when She blew;
     Her breath caused shadows of the clouds to move.
     5. Her gleam reveals Mount Sinai's deathlessness;
     Baha's bright light is kindled when She glows.
     6. Then to Her west the sun of splendor dawned,
     and to Her east, the moon of moons arose. 
     7. The mistral's fragrance wafted from Her hair,
     and Beauty's eyes were solaced by Her gaze.
     8. Her shining face gave Guidance sage advice,
     and Moses' soul was cleansed by Her form's blaze.
     9. The heart of hearts embraced Her eyelid's dart.
     For Her locks' lasso, Being's head was bent.
     10. Her footprints constitute My highest aim,
     the earth She trod, the most high Throne's advent.
     11. To win Her I have wept in every eye;
     in exile, I have burned in every fire.
     12. I spread myself out so that Her foot might
     tread on My heart, and I win My desire.
     13. I sought to gain Our union everywhere;
     I scrawled letters of nearness on all earth.
     14. And if I rush to oneness with Her light,
     Then I am cast back, losing closeness' berth. 
     15. And if I plead for union, hands upraised,
     She answers with a sword: "My lovers' prize!"
     16. The firmness of our bond was My sole care;
     Her goal is our relationship's demise.
     17. I said, "To meet, I'd offer Thee My all.
     Have mercy, do not publish My disgrace.
     18. Since I love Thee too well, then make us one--
     That we might for eternity embrace."
     19. By revelation's secret! Everything
     appeared from Her unveiling. She raised Me!
     20. By Husayn's sorrow! Emulating Me, 
     the world-gyre is weighed down with agony.
     21. "Thou art My breast's desire, My soul's sole hope,
     My spirit's master and My light, My heart.
     22. And after My hard journey, let's unite,
     be intimates after My pain apart."
     23. My incandescence kindled every fuel,
     the Seen world was illumined by My sigh.
     24. God's sea was dried up by My thirst, which the
     wide stream of glory cannot satisfy.
     25. And all the gore that I saw on the earth
     bespoke the tears of blood that My eyes shed.
     26. The ocean's but a drop before My tear,
     The Friend's blaze was, before mine, underfed.
     27. For My grief froze the great sea of delight;
     the spring of sorrow flowed at My despair
     28. My grandeur fainted and My brilliance swooned;
     their gloating vanity snuffed out My flare.
     29. My bones were whittled down, My body worn;
     The fever of My heat burned up My soul.
     30. Love for Thee felled Me, passion ground Me down.
     To leave Thee melts Me; union is My goal. 
     31. The secret of My sorrow cleft the sky,
     My anguish sundered the earth of the breast.
     32. The tears in My eyes spoke of My heart's fire,
     My face paled at the sighing of My chest.
     33. My critics' gloating makes Me wail all night.
     I plead all day since My support is gone.
     34. For I have reached dishonor's lowest rung,
     so that tongues stutter when they speak thereon.
     35. The houris in their castles clothed themselves
     in mourning black at My soul's deep despair.
     36. I've fallen into anguish in all hearts;
     I feel constricted in the open air.
     37. Then from behind Me She cried out, "Be still!
     and hold Thy tongue from all that it hath told.
     38. How many Husayns like Thee wanted Me;
     there love Me, just like Thee, 'Alis untold.
     39. How many intimates I had who were
     thy peers--and loves, superior to Thee
     40. Who always wail but cannot reach My gaze 
     one instant, by the light of unity.
     41. My dawn makes revelation's sun a star,
     My brilliance makes pure light only a glint;
     42. My soul's gleam renders Being's secret naught,
     Of My love's flames all bonfires only hint.
     43. My nature molded the creation's rite;
     the White Palm was withdrawn before My hand.
     44. The stern injunction came from a clear Cause;
     My wisdom's fairness shaped the just Command.
     45. The wave within Me stilled the ocean's surf;
     the Holy Ghost stirred at My rapture's lights.
     46. Immortal Moses swooned before My gaze;
     My gleam destroyed the Sinai of all heights.
     47. The spread of My Cause quickened all the souls;
     old bones were wakened by My spirit's breath.
     48. The soul of this Cause circled round its House;
     My visage raised that House's soul from death.
     49. The B of "speak the secret" swooned before
     My Point! The B hides the realm of high lore.
     50. All guidance shines forth from My dawning Cause;
     the news of My descent, all the heights bore.
     51. My bounties lent birdsongs their melody,
     from My tune comes the humming of the bee.
     52. I rendered Thee a suspect by My Law:
     Thou didst another's love quaff, wrongfully.
     53. Thou didst bring forth depictions and kinships
     and crave names, thus departing from My way.
     54. Thou didst describe a self and say it's mine-- 
     the gravest sin, for therein limits lay.
     55. Thou didst desire a hopeless union, the
     condition for which Thou must satisfy:
     56. Thou must drain every cup of fate's ordeals;
     thy heart must spew the blood of tyranny.
     57. Thou must cut off all hope of comfort's touch;
     Thou must renounce every necessity.
     58. Thy duty is to shed blood in love's faith;
     a love-scorched soul is fealty to Me.
     59. Nights spent awake at slanderer's attacks,
     a constant stream of insults all the days;
     60. In My faith poison's as a healing drink;
     in My Path, fate's wrath is a tender grace.
     61. Cease claiming to love, or accept all this,
     For thus was it ordained in My Law's scroll."
     62. In private I called out to Her, "My love,
     My ultimate hope and My heart's sole goal!
     63. I stand here in the presence of Thy might,
     aspiring to all that Thou dost relate.
     64. Here I am asking for all Thou dost love,
     then here I stand, prepared for thy mandate.
     65. My breast yearns for the shafts of thine assault;
     My body craves the swords of cruelty.
     66. Thy fire's My light, thy harshness is My wish;
     My rest is thy wrath, My goal thy decree.
     67. Look on the tears of My eyes, how they flow;
     gaze on My inmost heart, how it doth fade.
     68. Each day the spears of all have struck Me down,
     and each night I died by rejection's blade.
     69. I read each line of atheism's book;
     each second I heard everyone's rude jeers,
     70. And faced false charges of idolatry.
     Each day I was transfixed by exile's spears--
     71. As though fate's woes descended just for Me,
     and fury's blades were sharpened for My neck:
     72. The grief of Jacob, Joseph's prison cell;
     the Friend's white hot flames, and Job's tragic check;
     73. And Adam's brooding, Jonah's urgent flight;
     the sad lament of David, Noah's cry;
     74. Eve's separation, Mary's agony;
     Isaiah's trials, Zachariah's sigh.
     75. My rain of grief hath sealed the fate of all,
     My flood of woes gave rise to all distress.
     76. See how I roamed the lands without a friend
     save for the beast within the wilderness.
     77. At My heart's breaking, springs broke through the earth;
     My open eyes caused heaven's eye to flow.
     78. My spirit's grief cut short the endless Soul;
     the Most High Throne shook at My suffering's glow.
     79. Red everywhere was reddened by My blood,
     and from My tears there grew up this world's bower.
     80. For bitter hurt in thy love's path is sweet;
     From any but Thee heaven's mead is sour.
     81. And iron's scars can be seen on My neck,
     on My legs marks of fetters yet remain;
     82. For not a day passed save that I was scorched
     by clear prose and the hints verses contain.
     83. My spirit disappeared, My heart dissolved;
     My soul boiled from the pain of misery.
     84. I was left with no spirit, heart or soul;
     that I existed at all startled Me.
     85. My secret's loftiness convicted Me;
     I wish that My creation never rose.
     86. For thus have difficulties wiped Me out,
     and thus was I encompassed by My woes.
     87. Then I ascended and withdrew alone;
     I reached the real Encounter in My heart.
     88. I saw Thy traits in My eyes' portraiture,
     through Thine eye's glance, which is sharp as a dart.
     89. If I had limits, they appeared from Thee;
     If I had traits then they derived from Thee.
     90. Night's darkness was fulfilled when I was roiled;
     My joy refined the daylight's clarity.
     91. No matter if I am today cast out;
     I saw, when sent forth, the exalted light.
     92. I knew Jerusalem by the Friend's glow;
     I journeyed in Tihran when taking flight.
     93. My inner light gave Me faith in the Light;
     I rose up, by the spirit, in My soul."
     94. I call on thee, life-spirit, to depart;
     within Me, no part is left of the whole.
     95. Transcendent spirit, climb down from thy throne;
     for thee, My stigma is no source of blame.
     96. I waken thee, My heart: thou must depart;
     thou hast no honor in this realm of shame.
     97. My patience: Bear all that which Thou hast seen,
     of hardship and of ease in thy Love's way.
     98. In spirit, She told Me to persevere:
     "I knew of all the proofs Thou dost display.
     99. Forget all that Thou hast known and adored;
     idolatry, for Me, is unity;
     100. For to Me Sinai's brightest glow is naught;
     and the sublimest light is gloom to Me.
     101. Thy verses' sketch of Me is a child's truth;
     For My subjects, thy words of praise are sound.
     102. I never ceased to dwell in sanctity,
     and My transcendence hath remained unbound.
     103. How many just ones, I deemed mere despots;
     how many wise ones I saw as untaught;
     104. How fleeting were immortals of all kinds;
     how many learned never will know aught;
     105. How many worshippers have disobeyed;
     how many genuflecting have not kneeled!
     106. My Being vindicated heaven's psalms;
     My scripture hath unveiled scrolls that were sealed.
     107. My atom made the cosmic sun revolve,
     My drop evoked great praise from Being's sea;
     108. The songs of all the creatures were to Me
     the buzzing of a tiny ant or bee.
     109. All minds turned unto My soul's ecstasy;
     all souls were by My spirit's tune revived.
     110. My raining Cause made deities divine;
     all Lords have by My ample order thrived.
     111. The Spirit's realm moved in Me by decree;
     I set My foot down on Mount Sinai's throne;
     112. At My light the star's radiance blazed forth;
     the sun of rapture at My spirit shone.
     113. Collected verses, revelation's gleam;
     the Traces and Day-Stars of sanctity;
     114. Thought's essences and contemplation's gems;
     Light-beams' adornments, wisdom's jewelry.
     115. The Alpha of My Cause judged everyone;
     all wonders came forth from My soul's good will.
     116. Thou didst leave Me and reckon thyself near,
     and waters of whim in myth's spring didst spill.
     117. Thou dost forsake the Unseen's light, in what
     Thou wreakest in thyself--and My works lose!
     118. Hold fast to the cord of the outward Cause;
     to befriend light's concealed face must Thou choose.
     119. Rend nearness' veil without a hint! Look on
     the sacred Beauty secretly, within.
     120. Be silent, for earth's Powers are disturbed.
     Forbear! The Unseen's eyes wept a fountain.
     121. In Thee is veiled meaning beyond knowledge
     that even radiant minds never knew.
     122. The holy mystery hides joy and friendship,
     which Thou must not divulge if Thou be true.
     123. Wert Thou to unmask what Thou didst behold,
     the world would in a trice be lost to sight!
     124. For thus the throne of glory hath decreed,
     and so ordained the mystery of might.
     125. They who attain are blessed for they kept faith;
     blessed are they who embrace the wondrous Rite;
     126. Blessed are the lovers for the blood they shed;
     blessed are the ones who with My love unite.
     127. Blessed are the sincere, who to the shade of
     My Lordliness made haste from every side."
     

Baha'u'llah's Notes:

     4. Shadows of the clouds: A reference to that which He hath said, Blessed and
     Exalted may He be, "That God should come down to them overshadowed with
     clouds [Q. 2:210]." 

     To move: A reference to the mountains moving, insofar as they will stir
     even as clouds, as He hath said, "and thou shalt see the mountains, that thou
     supposest fixed, passing by like clouds [Q. 27:88]." All these are signs of the
     Resurrection Day, and the events associated therewith.

     7. Solaced: Which is to say, illumined. From the fragrance of Her locks the
     breeze of delight and splendor, and the perfume of compassion and glory, have
     been wafted from north of the paradise of the divine Essence, which stretcheth to
     the right of the eternal garden. In this wise, perchance the dusty bones of the
     substances of all created things shall be honored with life without end and
     everlasting existence, and bestow honor upon the pride of Being through the
     agency of those heart-entrancing gales and pleasing, fragrant scents that waft from
     the wondrous and imperishable chalice that holds a new, incomparable wine. Even
     so, the eye of true Beauty, of which the sun of the heaven of Being is the least
     significant sign, did by gazing upon Her face become brilliant, radiant and
     illumined. Exalted be God, Her Creator, above that of which ye make mention.

     8. When Moses cleansed and sanctified the feet of the divine Self, Who had been
     consigned to human form, from the sandals of contingent fancies and drew forth
     the hand of divine Power from the fold of grandeur in the cloak of splendor, He
     arrived in the holy, good and blessed valley of the heart. This is the base of the
     throne of everlasting effulgence and the seat of divine and glorious converse. And
     when He reached that land of Sinai, which lieth outstretched to the right of the
     illumined Spot, He smelled the perfumed odor of the Spirit from east of eternity,
     and perceived the undying lights from all directions, without direction. After the
     darkened glass of self had been removed, the wick of the divine Essence blazed
     forth in the lamp of his heart, ignited by the passionate scent of godly love and the
     flaming brand of the fire of divine unity. And after the stations of opposition had
     been eliminated, He arrived in the valley of eternal sobriety through the wine of the
     attainment to an incomparable Countenance and the pure nectar of the
     imperishable.

     Through the attractive power of His longing for the divine Meeting, He
     became aware of the city of everlasting life. "He entered the city at a time when its
     people were heedless" (Q. 28:15). And behold, He discerned the fire of the
     timeless godhead, and shone with the light of the Almighty God. He said to His
     family, "Do ye tarry here. Verily, I observe a fire" (Q. 20:10). When He
     discovered and perceived the visage of pre-existent, most gracious Guidance in the
     tree that is neither of the east nor the west (Q. 24:35), the changeable and
     ephemeral face was honored and glorified by attaining to the ancient, imperishable
     Countenance. In the blazing fire He discovered the wondrous, inaccessible visage
     of Guidance which had been concealed in the bosoms of the Unseen. This is that
     to which He then gave utterance: "or I shall find guidance in this fire." (Q. 20:10).

     Even so, perceive ye the intent of the blessed verse, "He who made for ye
     fire from the green tree." (Q. 36:80). O would that there were a listener to
     comprehend it, and that one drop from the vast ocean of fire, one spark from the
     storehouse of flames, could be mentioned. But it is better, after all, that this pearl
     remain hidden within the shell of pure longing and stored in the vessels of secrecy,
     that every stranger might be excluded and every intimate friend may be garbed in
     pilgrim's dress before the Ka'bah of splendor, that he may enter the sanctuary of
     beauty. How happy is the soul that consumes the cage of the body in the flames of
     the fire of love, and becomes the familiar of the Spirit, that he may attain unto the
     exalted mercy of repose, and that the lofty bounty of glory may be bestowed upon
     him.

     All that of which mention hath been made concerning the ranks of guidance
     and the grades of self-purification in the station of Moses--may peace be upon Him
     and our Prophet--hath reference to the manifestation of these effulgences in the
     world of outward appearances. Otherwise, that Exalted One was always and shall
     forever be led by the guidance of God. Nay, more, it was from Him that the sun of
     guidance dawned and the moon of God's grace appeared. It was from His
     essential being that the flames of the divine Essence were ignited, and from the
     brilliance of His forehead that the light of eternity became radiant. He Himself
     resolved such doubts by the words He spoke when questioned by Pharaoh about
     the man He had killed. He responded, "I did it indeed, and I was one of those who
     erred. And I fled from you when I feared you; but My Lord hath given Me
     judgment and hath made Me One of the Apostles." (Q. 26:20-21). The discourse
     hath come to an end, though in truth this matter is inexhaustible and unending.

     17. My all: That is, "All that which hath descended upon Me of the stations of
     eloquent exposition and hidden meanings, and that which it hath been given to Me
     to know of the modes of the divine Names and Attributes, and that which God
     hath bestowed upon Me in the worlds of the unseen and the seen--all this I offer up
     that I might meet Thee once, and gaze upon Thee a single time."

     I beseech Thy forgiveness, O My God, for that which I have presumed to
     assert in Thy presence. But, by Thy Might, if I were not so, I would wish to be so
     in Thy precincts, for without this nothing can ever benefit Me, and naught else can
     grant repose to My heart, even wert Thou to bestow upon Me all who are in
     heaven and on earth. I ask Thee, O My God, by Him Who witnessed in Thy path
     what none else hath witnessed, to send down upon Thy Servant the most great
     signs of Thy love and the evidences of Thy glorious loving-kindness, that My soul
     may be content in that for which it hopeth. Verily, Thou art powerful over all
     things.

     23. Fuel: Even so, He saith, "the fire, whose fuel is men and stones." (Q. 2:24). 
     Flames and intense anxiety are also intended.

     28. Gloating: Malicious gloaters greater in number than the atoms of all created
     things, such as the eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor soul numbered, nor
     imagination conceived, like unto a downpour. Lo, it is as rainfall descending from
     the sky of heedlessness! Say: O people of the earth, oppose not Him in Whose
     heart there is naught save the effulgence of the lights of the celestial morn. Fear ye
     God and turn not away, for if ye never love, ye will never hate. Once the love of
     God comes to exist, the loss of all else is of no importance. We praise God that
     He hath rendered Us unneedful of their love and mention. And He is God,
     Powerful over all things.

     31. Cleft: A reference to the verse, "The heavens are well-nigh cleft asunder from
     above." (Q. 42:5).

     32 Fire: Flame.

     34. Stutter: The stammering of the tongue.

     40. Wail: With the sense of importuning and lamenting out of love and grief.

     42. Bonfires: A reference to the verse, "Do ye tarry here: I observe a fire. 
     Perhaps I shall bring you a brand from it." (Q. 20:10 [Regarding Moses and the
     burning bush.])

     43. My nature: A reference to the verse, "God's original creation, upon which He
     patterned mankind's creation." (Q. 30:30). Rite: The verse, "Set thy face toward
     the religion, with pure faith." (Q. 30:30). Palm: "Now clasp they hand to thy side;
     and it shall come forth white, but unhurt." (Q. 20:22). Withdrawn: A reference to
     the verse, "Now draw they hand close to thy side." (Q. 20:22, 27:12, 28:32).

     46. Gaze: "gaze toward the Mount" (Q. 7:143). Swooned: "Moses fell in a
     swoon." (Q. 7:143). Destroyed: "And when God manifested Himself to the
     mountain, He turned it to dust" (Q. 7:143).

     49. B: By the letter B (ba'), existence was manifested and by the Point the
     worshipper was distinguished from the object of worship. Refer to the Tradition,
     "Everything in the Qur'an is contained in its first chapter . . ." and so on. Point: 
     The meanings of the Point are innumerable, unlimited, and inexhaustible. The
     messianic Countenance, the universal Word, the divine Form, hath described the
     Most Great Throne, which is the place of descent and the seat of the Invisible
     Essence, with this exalted name and lofty appellation. It is reserved for this very
     Being. And they Lord is in Himself sufficient for a Witness.

     56. Heart: The inmost heart, the blood of the heart, and the spirit are all three
     intended.

     63. relate: That which hath been mentioned of tyranny and wrath.

     72. Jacob: A reference to the verse, "and his eyes became white with grief" (Q.
     12:82). Joseph: The verse, "I prefer the prison to compliance with their bidding"
     (Q. 12:33). Job: "Truly evil hath touched me" (Q. 21:83).

     74. Eve: In her separation from Adam for forty days or more, as it is mentioned in
     the former traditions.

     77. Breaking: "and We caused the earth to break forth with springs" (Q. 54:11).
     Broke through: "and their waters met by a settled decree" (Q. 54:11). Open: A
     reference to the verse, "so we opened the gates of heaven" (Q. 54:11). Flow:
     "With water which fell in torrents" (Q. 54:11). 

     88. Sharp: "and so thy sight today is piercing" (Q. 50:22).

     115. Cause: The world of Cause is intended.

     117. This effulgence is meant. It is an effulgence from the luminaries of the morn
     of Reality, and from the dawning rays of the sun of sanctity and splendor. It rose
     from the sun of Being, the moon of the Beloved and the Point of the Adored One,
     and shone forth upon the realities of all contingent beings and the inmost essences
     of all creatures. Then, through droplets from the elixir of divine Being and pure
     spray from the inexhaustible Fountain, this effulgence honored and adorned the
     very atoms of all existing things, and all those of which mention hath been made,
     with everlasting, perpetual life. It thus invested them with the mantle of
     imperishability and clothed them in the vestments of exaltation and the robes of
     eternity.

     But in spite of all this, we have departed from this greatest of signs and this
     most great bestowal, and from these inextinguishable lights and imperishable gifts,
     nor have we been steadfast in this mighty handiwork, these perfect honors, this
     ancient glory, this unending grace. We have remained shut away from the
     sanctified breaths of the Holy Spirit and the fragrant breezes wafting from the glow
     of intimacy, to such an extent that were a thousand Davids of Existence to
     serenade the dusty bones of mankind with psalmody and songs of beatitude in
     fresh and wondrous melodies, these latter would never stir nor move an iota. For
     all readiness for the descent of compassion from the heaven of divine Power hath
     vanished, and all have been imprisoned in the cage of the body and dazed by evil
     passions. They have swooned with heedlessness in such wise that they shall never
     regain consciousness nor reach the station of attainment and nearness, which is the
     original goal. What a sign of grief and regret we must breathe, for we have not
     been led by the quintessence of Guidance, nor have we emulated the essence of the
     Ancient of Days. We have neither advanced toward the Sinai of His proximity,
     nor have we opposed His deniers. We have not patterned ourselves according to
     the attractions of His Holy Spirit, nor have we rendered the lights of His delight
     our exemplars. The quintessence of emulation is martyrdom, to which honor we
     have failed to attain; and it is to clad oneself in the robe of steadfastness, which we
     have failed to accomplish. Aye, we are surrounded by the Lake of His Essence,
     yet we seat ourselves and await a drink of water. We dwell in the shade of the Sun
     of His Eternity, and call for a Lamp! Such is the case with this Servant, with
     mankind, and with everyone in every land.

     If even a flame from this Lote-Tree were to blaze forth, we would not
     thereby be ignited, but would, rather, arise to extinguish it! Happy is he who
     clothes himself in the garb of equity for this battle. If thou dost acquire this most
     great attribute, thou wilt most certainly attain to the most glorious bounty. This is
     that invisible golden thread by whose movement all creation is set in motion, and
     by whose quiescence all who are in the realms of the Worshipped One are brought
     to a standstill. The breast must then be purified and cleansed from corrupt,
     groundless and satanic fancies, that the wondrous countenance of Equity might lift
     up its head from behind the mountains of Qaf.

     Thereafter shall we experience the everlasting assaults of rapture and the
     divine ecstasies of yearning through the ruffling of the wings of the doves of
     eternity and the hands of the spirits of splendor. In the fluttering of love shall we
     then find rest and repose. This is the ultimate goal and the least of His stations. 
     We must in every matter shun all else, which derives from the opposers of the
     eternal Truth. It is impermissible for us to sit and socialize even for a moment, for
     by God, the corrupt souls are melting away the pure ones, even as the blaze of dry
     firewood and cold, white snow. Be not thou among those whose hearts grow hard
     at the mention of God, the Creator.

     That which hath been mentioned in commentary upon this verse was as a
     kindness to the gaze of the opposers and a mercy to the eyes of the hateful, that
     they might not understand it according to their evil passions, nor interpret it
     thereby. These verses were spoken at the time when We travelled into exile in the
     lands of the Ottoman Empire. No one among the divines and eminent men of that
     realm made any protest or objection. But from the railing of this people, I believe
     that even after this explanation they will raise objections and by reason of self-
     delusion will become wayfarers on the path of vain imagination, error, idle fancy
     and blindness. To God is the setting out on the path, whether thankfully or
     ungratefully, whether advancing or fleeing away. When the seal of a perfume
     bottle is removed, those with a sense of smell can perceive the scent, whereas
     those suffering from rheum will remain deprived. Were all to be stricken with the
     malady of rheum, this would not indicate a fault in the rose-water of Eternity, nor
     would the musk of Cathay thereby be brought into disrepute.

     Praise be to Thee, O God, My God! I call upon Thee at that time, a time in
     which Thou didst send down upon Me the evidences of divine sorrow, which,
     were they to overflow into the universe, would cause the seen and the unseen
     world to pass out of existence, in such wise that the spirit well-nigh departed in its
     agitation. By Thy Might, and Thine invisible Eternality, were I to breathe a word
     of it, the hearts would burn in their inmost essences, the heavens and all that is in
     them would be cleft asunder and the earth and all that is upon it would be
     devastated. Alas, alas, thereby the fragrance of constancy would never be diffused
     from the garden of glory, nor would the everlasting breezes be wafted from the
     city of splendor. The nightingale of pre-existence would never warble upon the
     crimson twigs, nor would the chanticleer of grandeur raise his voice in the
     kingdom of exaltation.

     By the glory of Him Whom Thou has glorified and made the Manifestation
     of Thy Divinity and the Fountainhead of Thy supreme Power, I have forgotten
     every mention, and all the wonders of Thy knowledge, and the comprehensive
     signs of Thy wisdom which Thou didst teach Me aforetime. Nay, I was forgetful
     and oblivious, as though I were not in the realms of the seen. And by the Lives of
     'Ali and Muhammad, and by the pure Spirit, the compassion of the Merciful, the
     attraction of Mahmud, the distraction of Ahmad, the secret of the Beloved, the
     delight of the Pure One, I like not to remain in this kingdom even a second. And
     God was behind Me as My witness.

     O people of the Bayan, and whoso draweth nigh to God and His verses in
     the Living One of Utterance: Give ear to that which the Dove of the divine
     Essence doth warble in the utmost rapture, overwhelmed with the love of God and
     with yearning for Him, having died to the self and now living in God, the Mighty,
     the Powerful. 

     Fear God, and do not differ concerning His cause. Worship naught else
     but Him, and wreak not corruption in the land of knowledge. Accept the counsel
     proffered ye by this Servant, upon Whom the darts of the divine decree have rained
     down from the crimson cloud, in such wise that none but God can ever estimate
     their number, or fully perceive them. O people, be merciful, fear God and devour
     not this Servant in the flames of your own selves. Torture Him not with the idle
     fancies of your base desires, and do not deliver Him into the prison of your
     heedlessness. Do not slay Him with the swords of your hypocrisy, nor banish Him
     with the spears of your injustice and malice. For He hath but summoned ye to
     God, and shall never call ye unto anyone save the Manifestations of His Self, the
     Mirrors of His inmost Essence, and Him Who standeth in the stead of His Cause
     itself.

     Say: Fear God, and oppose Him not, nor transgress the bounds of His
     counsel. Know yet that there is among ye one who worketh corruption in this
     good and blessed land. The malediction of God be upon him, and whosoever
     raiseth his hand without the approval or permission of God, or stirreth in
     disobedience to Him. Such a one is deprived of God's compassion. Whosoever
     taketh his hands from his pockets and followeth his selfish passions, casting the
     Cause of God behind his back, hath removed himself from the shadow of
     Providence, though he dwell in the vicinity of the shrine of God. Whoso
     submitteth to his base desires and attributeth this to God hath forfeited the garden
     of His loving-kindness, and whoso faileth to detach himself from all who are in the
     heavens and on earth shall never be able to enter the kingdom of heaven. For he
     who hath in his heart aught else but the love of God shall never step foot in His
     city. The vengeance of the Lord be upon whoso teacheth anyone without His
     permission, and the awful might of God be upon whoso distributeth His words to
     any soul without His leave.




	In the course of Baha'u'llah's stay at Sulaymaniyyah (c. 1855), at the request of the local mystic leader, Shaykh Isma'il, He revealed a massive poem modeled after Ibn Farid's Poem of the Way. This poem of Baha'u'llah stood over 2000 lines of supreme beauty, which He allowed only 127 of the lines to be kept and is known among the Eastern friends as "Qassidiyyih Varqayyih". Because of its complexity, even though Baha'u'llah later revealed a large number of notes explaining many of its abstruse allusions, has received very little attention and remains pretty much unexplored.

	In early 80's, a British scholar provided a provisional translation (of fairly elementary quality, in my view), but more recently Prof Juan Cole has prepared a much improved rendering of the same into English.

	Enjoy. ahang (Rabbani)
